---

title: Occupant monitoring systems and methods
abstract: Various implementations relate to an operator monitoring system (OMS). Certain implementations include an OMS coupled to a rotatable portion of a steering wheel assembly of a vehicle. For example, the OMS may include an imaging unit, such as a camera, that is coupled to a central hub portion of the steering wheel assembly. The imaging unit has a field of view directed toward one or more occupants in the vehicle and is configured to capture an image signal corresponding to an imaging area in the field of view. The imaging area can be configured to encapsulate an expected position of one or more vehicle occupants. The OMS also includes one or more processing units in electrical communication with the imaging unit that receives and processes the image signal from the imaging unit to determine an occupant state and, in some implementations, provide feedback based on the determined occupant state.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09533687&OS=09533687&RS=09533687
owner: TK Holdings Inc.
number: 09533687
owner_city: Auburn Hills
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141230
---
This disclosure generally relates to an occupant monitoring system. More specifically this disclosure relates to a vehicle steering assembly including an occupant monitoring system.

Various advanced driver assistance systems incorporate visual acoustic and or sensor warnings. Many of these warnings are in response to outside dangers e.g. proximity of another object . However in recent times the number of potential distractions for a driver has increased e.g. mobile phones mp3 players internal displays etc. . Driver monitoring systems are becoming more and more popular for inclusion in vehicles such as to warn when the driver is detected to be in a non alert state.

Presented are systems and methods for an occupant monitoring system OMS . For example in various implementations the OMS includes an imaging unit such as a camera that is coupled to a rotating portion of a steering wheel assembly such as the central hub portion. The imaging unit has a field of view directed toward a cabin of the vehicle such as in the direction of one or more occupants in the vehicle and is configured to capture an image signal corresponding to an imaging area in the field of view. The imaging area can be configured to encapsulate an expected position of the occupant for example. The OMS also includes one or more processing units in electrical communication with the imaging unit that receives and processes the image signal from the imaging unit to determine an occupant state and in some implementations provide feedback e.g. output based on the determined occupant state.

For example in various implementations an occupant monitoring system OMS for monitoring at least one occupant in a vehicle includes an imaging unit configured to be coupled to a steering wheel assembly. The imaging unit is configured to rotate with a central portion of the steering wheel assembly of the vehicle. The imaging unit has a field of view inside of the vehicle and is configured to capture an image signal corresponding to an imaging area in the vehicle. The imaging area is within the field of view of the imaging unit and encapsulates an expected position of the occupant in the vehicle.

In some implementations the imaging unit may be coupled to the central portion of the steering wheel assembly and the central portion of the steering wheel assembly may include a hub. In some implementations the hub may include a housing. And the imaging unit may be disposed within the housing. In certain implementations the housing may be coupled adjacent to a backcover of the hub. For example the housing may be coupled adjacent to the backcover via a mounting bracket or directly to the back cover. In addition the system may also include at least one light source disposed adjacent the imaging unit in the housing and at least a portion of the heat generated by the light source and or the imaging unit may be transferred from the housing to the hub. In some implementations the housing may be integrally formed with a backcover of the hub and in some implementations the housing may be separately formed and attached to the backcover of the hub using suitable fastening mechanisms.

In certain implementations the OMS further includes a steering angle sensor. In addition the OMS may also include a processing unit. The processing unit includes a processor and a memory operably coupled to the processor. According to some implementations the memory has computer executable instructions stored thereon that when executed by the processor cause the processor to 1 receive an electrical signal from the steering angle sensor 2 process the electrical signal to determine at least one of the angle of rotation of the steering wheel assembly and the rate of angular rotation of the steering wheel assembly and 3 adjust the imaging unit to correct for at least one of the angle of rotation of the steering wheel assembly and the rate of angular rotation of the steering wheel assembly.

According to other implementations the memory of the processing unit has computer executable instructions stored thereon that when executed by the processor cause the processor to 1 receive an electrical signal from the steering angle sensor 2 process the electrical signal to determine at least one of the angle of rotation of the steering wheel assembly and the rate of angular rotation of the steering wheel assembly and 3 adjust the image signal captured of the imaging area to correct for at least one of the angle of rotation of the steering wheel assembly and the rate of angular rotation of the steering wheel assembly.

The OMS may also include a single modular unit configured to be coupled to the steering wheel assembly according to certain implementations.

In various implementations the imaging unit may include at least one camera. The OMS may also include at least one light source configured to illuminate the imaging area. For example in some implementations the camera is an infrared camera and the light source includes an infrared light source such as for example at least one light emitting diode. The light source may also include a light bar that includes one or more light emitting diodes.

In some implementations the light source includes at least a first section of one or more light emitting diodes and a second section of one or more light emitting diodes. The first section is configured to illuminate visible light in response to the OMS being in one of an operational mode or a non operational mode and the second section is configured to illuminate infrared light in the direction of the field of view of the imaging unit. In other implementations other types of light sources may be used a light bar including at least two sections of light sources two or more light bars or a combination thereof may be used.

In certain implementations the memory may have computer executable instructions stored thereon that when executed by the processor cause the processor to 1 receive an image signal from the imaging unit 2 process the image signal to identify an analysis region 3 analyze the analysis region to determine an occupant information parameter 4 analyze the occupant information parameter to determine an occupant state and 5 output a signal based on the determined occupant state. In some implementations the analysis region includes determining the position and or orientation of the occupant s head and or eyes. In addition in some implementations analyzing the analysis region includes determining deviation in the position and or orientation of the occupant s head and or eyes from a predetermined position. Furthermore in some implementations analyzing the occupant information parameter to determine the occupant state includes determining that the position and or orientation of the occupant s head and or eyes are deviated from a predetermined position for at least a predetermined amount of time.

The OMS may also include a disabling unit configured to temporarily disable the occupant monitoring system when a driver signal is received and the vehicle is stationary according to certain implementations. For example the driver signal may be output upon rotation of the steering wheel assembly of the vehicle by at least a predetermined amount and or for a predetermined amount of time. And the driver signal may cease to be output when the steering wheel assembly is returned to a substantially central position for at least a predetermined amount of time.

Various implementations of the OMS may also include a steering wheel assembly configured to be rotatably coupled to a steering column of the vehicle. The steering wheel assembly includes a rim surrounding the centrally located hub and the imaging unit is configured to be coupled to and rotate with the central portion of the steering wheel assembly.

Various implementations also include a method of monitoring an occupant in a vehicle using an occupant monitoring system. The method includes 1 coupling an occupant monitoring system OMS to a rotatable portion of a steering wheel assembly of the vehicle such that the OMS rotates with the rotatable portion the OMS including an imaging unit configured to capture an image signal corresponding to an imaging area in the vehicle the imaging area being within the field of view of the imaging unit 2 capturing an image signal corresponding to the imaging area in the vehicle 3 processing the image signal to identify an analysis region 4 analyzing the analysis region to determine an occupant information parameter 5 analyzing the occupant information parameter to determine an occupant state and 6 outputting a signal based on the determined occupant state.

In some implementations the rotatable portion of the steering wheel assembly of the vehicle is configured to rotate relative to a steering column. Furthermore the OMS may also include at least one processing unit and one or more of the processing analyzing and outputting steps may be performed by the OMS processing unit. The vehicle may also include at least one processing unit and one or more of the processing analyzing and outputting steps may be performed by the vehicle processing unit.

The details of one or more implementations of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Certain exemplary implementations of the invention will now be described with reference to the drawings. In general such implementations relate to an occupant monitoring system OMS for monitoring occupants in a vehicle via one or more imaging units. For example in various implementations the OMS includes an imaging unit such as a camera that is coupled to a rotating portion of a steering wheel assembly such as the central hub portion. The imaging unit has a field of view directed toward one or more occupants in the vehicle and is configured to capture an image signal corresponding to an imaging area in the field of view. The imaging area can be configured to encapsulate an expected position of the occupant for example. The OMS also includes one or more processing units in electrical communication with the imaging unit that receives and processes the image signal from the imaging unit to determine an occupant state and in some implementations provide feedback e.g. output based on the determined occupant state.

In some implementations the steering column can receive the steering shaft that extends along a steering axis and serves to translate rotational movement of the steering wheel assembly to the wheels of the vehicle. Rotational movement of the steering wheel assembly can be transmitted to the wheels by mechanical and or electrical means.

As illustrated in the exemplary system shown in the steering wheel assembly includes a rim and a hub . The steering wheel assembly can also include at least one spoke connecting the rim to the hub . The rim can comprise a single continuous portion or any number of unique sections that the driver can grip to facilitate control of the vehicle. For example the rim can include an annular ring shape with an outer contour that is essentially circular in shape. In alternate implementations the rim can define any suitable shape including for example circular elliptical square rectangular semi circular semi elliptical or any other regular or irregular shape. In addition in some implementations the rim may include two or more semi circular semi elliptical semi rectangular or other regular or irregular shaped portions coupled to the hub. For example in one implementation the rim may include two semi circular rim sections coupled to the hub e.g. resembling a flight yoke . The hub can be disposed central to the rim . The hub can provide the connection point between the steering wheel assembly and the vehicle s steering shaft steering column .

As illustrated in implementations shown in the OMS is coupled to a central portion of the steering wheel assembly . The central portion can include for example the spoke the hub and or any other portion of the steering wheel assembly centrally located with respect to the rim . As used herein and or includes implementations having element A alone element B alone or elements A and B taken together. For example the central portion can include the spoke and or the hub is meant to include implementations wherein the central portion includes the spoke the hub or the spoke and the hub .

Coupling and integrating the OMS with the central portion of the steering wheel assembly can allow for increased viewing angles and improved resolution of the imaging area by an imaging unit of the OMS of the driver and or other vehicle occupant regardless of the rotation of the steering wheel assembly . For example if the OMS were mounted to a non rotating component such as the steering column the OMS view of the driver or occupant could be obscured by the spoke s when the steering wheel assembly is rotated or by the rim by being positioned rearwards in relation to the steering wheel assembly . In addition mounting the OMS to a non rotating component of the vehicle would increase the distance between the imaging unit and the occupants in the vehicle.

In addition the central portion of the steering wheel assembly in a vehicle can also contain an airbag. Generally the driver knows to position his her hands and or body in certain positions relative to the steering wheel assembly for safety due to the airbag. Coupling the OMS to the central portion of the steering wheel assembly can also take advantage of this conditioned driver positioning and minimizes the likelihood of the driver obscuring the OMS .

Furthermore one or more components of the OMS may be mounted to the rim in some implementations. For example as described more below a light source for illuminating at least a portion of a field of view of the imaging unit may be included in a light bar system disposed on the rim . However by mounting components of the OMS to the central portion the OMS components may be less likely to be obscured by the driver s hands during normal operation of the vehicle.

Furthermore the three dimensional position of the steering wheel assembly in a vehicle e.g. height angle tilt etc. is usually adjustable to accommodate a wide range of drivers and or other vehicle occupants e.g. drivers or occupants of varying heights weights proportions ages ethnicities genders experience etc. . Incorporation of the OMS into the steering wheel assembly can allow for the OMS to take advantage of this adjustment and therefore accommodate a wide range of drivers and driver positions.

As noted above the OMS includes at least one imaging unit configured to capture an image signal corresponding to an imaging area in the vehicle. The imaging area may include the field of view of the imaging unit or a portion thereof. The image signal for example can comprise an optical representation of an instant value of the imaging area . In some implementations the imaging area can be configured to encapsulate an expected position of the driver and or other vehicle occupant. The imaging unit can be configured for rotating with the steering wheel assembly of the vehicle. In various implementations the imaging unit can be disposed on any portion of the central portion of the steering wheel assembly .

The imaging unit can include an instrument capable of capturing an image signal corresponding to the imaging area . For example the imaging unit can comprise a spectrometer a photometer a camera or a combination thereof. In some implementations such as in the imaging unit includes a camera . The camera can be any type of camera consistent with the systems and methods described herein. In some implementations the camera can have a high resolution low resolution capable of capturing still and or moving images. In some implementations the camera can be any suitable digital camera that can capture an image signal corresponding to the imaging area. Suitable camera platforms are known in the art and commercially available from companies such as Zeiss Canon Applied Spectral Imaging and others and such platforms are readily adaptable for use in the systems and methods described herein. In one implementation the camera may include a fish eye camera. The camera can feature simultaneous or sequential capture of one or more wavelengths using either embedded optical filters within the camera or external filters. The camera can in some implementations comprise a lens e.g. a wide angle lens a fisheye lens etc. adaptive optics other evolving optics or a combination thereof.

In some implementations the imaging unit may be part of a vehicle occupant imaging system that is part of the OMS . The vehicle occupant imaging system can also include at least one light source . The light source can be any type of light source capable of illuminating at least a portion of the field of view of the imaging unit and or the imaging area . The imaging unit can comprise a single light source or any number of light sources . Moreover different types of light sources may be implemented. In some implementations the one or more light sources can illuminate the imaging area with light of different wavelengths e.g. one light source can illuminate with a different wavelength or range of wavelengths than the other light source s . Examples of suitable light sources include artificial light sources such as incandescent light bulbs light emitting diodes and the like. Furthermore the light source can be a continuous light source e.g. incandescent light bulbs light emitting diodes continuous wave lasers etc. a pulsed light source e.g. pulsed lasers or a combination thereof. In addition in implementations that include light sources configured for illuminating with different wavelengths such as for example a first light source configured for illuminating infrared light and a second light source configured for illuminating visible light the light sources having different wavelengths may be configured for performing different functions. For example the infrared light source may be configured for illuminating at least a portion of the field of view of the imaging unit and the visible light source may be configured for communicating information to the driver or other occupants.

In some embodiments the light source can be any light source that emits one or more wavelength between 300 and 2500 nm. In some embodiments the light source emits a broad range of wavelengths and a filter can be used to select a wavelength of interest. In some embodiments a range of wavelengths is selected. Any type of filter consistent with the systems and methods described herein can be used. For example the filter can be an absorptive filter a dichroic filter a monochromatic filter a longpass filter a bandpass filter a shortpass filter or a combination thereof. In some embodiments the filter is an external filter. In some embodiments the filter is embedded in the light source . In some embodiments the filter is embedded in the vehicle occupant imaging system and or may include at least one optical film. In some implementations the light source can emit a wavelength or range of wavelengths of interest. In some implementations the light source can emit a range of wavelengths of from 800 nm to 1000 nm. In some implementations the light source can comprise an infrared light source e.g. a light source emitting one or more wavelengths from 750 nm to 1 000 000 nm such as a near infrared light source a mid infrared light source a far infrared light source or a combination thereof.

In certain implementations a processing unit may be configured for adjusting an intensity of the light source based on ambient lighting conditions in the field of view of the imaging unit . For example the intensity of light emitted from the light source may be determined by the processing unit based on the image signals received from by the imaging unit according to one implementation.

In some implementations the light source can include a light bar . The light bar can include for example a liquid crystal display LCD thin film transistor display active matrix display a segmented display e.g. improved black nematic INB super twisted nematic STN etc. one or more light emitting diodes LED a liquid crystal display laser halogen fluorescent an infra red IR LED illuminator or any other suitable light emitting element. For example in some implementations the light bar may include one or more LEDs that emit one or more wavelengths in the visible range e.g. 350 nm to 750 nm . In another implementation the light bar may include one or more LEDs that emit infrared light. And in yet another implementation the light bar may include a first set of LEDs that emit one or more wavelengths in the visible range and a second set of LEDs that emit one or more wavelengths in the infrared range. For example in various implementations the light bar includes at least a first section of LEDs that emit visible light and at least a second section of LEDs that emit infrared light. The LEDs in the second section may be configured for illuminating at least a portion of the field of view of the imaging unit and the LEDs in the first section may be configured for communicating information to the driver or other occupant. For example in one implementation the LEDs in the first section are configured for illuminating visible light in response to the OMS being in one of an operational mode or a non operational mode. In another implementation the LEDs in the first section may be configured to illuminate during vehicle operation to provide a warning to the driver or other occupants. And in yet another implementation the LEDs in the first section may be configured to flash one or more times at vehicle start up to indicate that the OMS is in an operational mode and then illuminate during vehicle operation to provide a warning to the driver or other occupants.

In some examples the vehicle occupant imaging system may use an external light source in addition to or instead of light source . As used herein an external light source includes any light source that is not part of the OMS . For example the external light source can include a natural light source such as the sun. Other examples of external light sources include ambient light such as from street lamps the headlights and or taillights from other vehicles electronic displays within the vehicle cabin cabin lights etc. In some examples the vehicle occupant imaging system can use an external light source not shown that is electrically coupled to the vehicle occupant imaging system such that the external light source is configured to illuminate the field of view of the imaging unit and or the imaging area .

In some implementations the light source may include the light bar another light source such as those described above or a combination thereof.

It is to be understood that as used herein the singular forms a an and the include the plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a camera a light source or a light bar includes combinations of two or more such cameras light sources or light bars and the like. The components comprising the vehicle occupant imaging system can be configured in any way consistent with the systems and methods described herein.

Some exemplary configurations of the vehicle occupant imaging system are illustrated in . In the implementation shown in the vehicle occupant imaging system includes a camera . An external light source not shown such as an artificial light source the sun or other available ambient light is used to illuminate the field of view and or imaging area of the camera .

In the implementation shown in the vehicle occupant imaging system includes camera and one or more light sources disposed proximate and above the camera . In the implementation shown in the vehicle occupant imaging system includes camera and light bar disposed proximate and above the camera .

In other implementations one or more individual light sources or light bars or combinations thereof may be disposed below and or to the sides of the camera or adjacent other locations on the steering wheel assembly vehicle or vehicle occupant imaging system . For example in the implementation shown in the vehicle occupant imaging system includes camera individual light source disposed proximate and above camera and light bar disposed proximate and below camera . As another example the vehicle occupant imaging system shown in includes camera two individual light sources disposed proximate and to the sides of camera and light bar disposed proximate and above the camera . In another example as illustrated in the vehicle occupant imaging system may include camera two individual light sources and two light bars . A first light source is disposed proximate to a right side of the camera a second light source is disposed proximate to a left side of the camera a first light bar is disposed proximate to a right side of the first light source and a second light bar is disposed proximate to a left side of the second light source

During normal operation of a vehicle the central portion of the steering wheel assembly is readily observable by the driver . In order for the presence of the OMS to not alter the driver s normal operation of the vehicle the OMS may be coupled to the steering wheel assembly so as to be non visible or unobtrusive to the driver . For example the OMS can be hidden from the driver behind a style element. Moreover the position of the vehicle occupant imaging system can also be optimized for safety of the driver s eyes.

For example one or more components of the OMS such as the imaging unit and or the light source may be disposed within a housing. The housing can be permanently and or removably coupled to the steering wheel assembly . In addition the housing may be integrally formed with or separately formed from and mounted to the steering wheel assembly according to various implementations. For example in some implementations the housing may be integrally formed with a backcover of the hub and one or more components of the OMS can be disposed in the housing formed with the backcover . In one such implementation the OMS components disposed in the backcover rotate with the steering wheel assembly . In other implementations the housing may be integrally formed with a portion of the hub that is adjacent to or includes a driver air bag or switch assembly. And in other implementations the housing may be separately formed from the steering wheel assembly and coupled to it using any suitable fastening technique such as for example screws hooks clips adhesive e.g. glue soldering or welding. The housing may be coupled directly to the steering wheel assembly or to a mounting bracket such as mounting bracket described below in relation to or other structure that is coupled to the steering wheel assembly .

In some implementations it may be desirable to thermally couple the OMS or portions thereof to the backcover and or other portions of the steering wheel assembly to dissipate heat away from the portions of the OMS and allow for improved heat exchange. For example the housing in which components of the vehicle occupant imaging system are disposed may be formed of a thermally conductive material and coupled to the backcover using a thermally conductive gap pad or other thermally conductive adhesive or mechanical heat sink according to certain implementations. For example the housing backcover and steering wheel assembly may be constructed of materials having high thermal conductivity including for example magnesium alloy diecast 1.575 W cm C aluminum alloy diecast 2.165 W cm C and steel low carbon 0.669 W cm C .

In some implementations the housing can be coupled to the backcover or other portions of the steering wheel assembly using a mounting bracket such as shown and described below in relation to or may be directly coupled to the back cover or other portions of the steering wheel assembly . Heat from the OMS components disposed within the housing are conducted from the housing to the backcover and or the steering wheel assembly directly or via the mounting bracket allowing the back cover and or steering wheel assembly to act as a heat sink for the OMS .

In some implementations the OMS can further include a steering angle sensor as shown in . The steering angle sensor can be mounted proximate to the steering wheel assembly and can provide active feedback about the position angle rate of rotation and or orientation of the steering wheel assembly . The steering angle sensor may be disposed between a non rotating and a rotating element of the steering wheel assembly . For example as shown in the steering angle sensor may be coupled to the steering column which does not rotate. Alternatively not shown the steering angle sensor may be coupled to the steering shaft which rotates relative to the steering column . In another example which is shown in the steering angle sensor is disposed in a stator of an automotive clock spring. Alternatively not shown the steering angle sensor may be disposed in a rotor of the automotive clock spring.

The steering angle sensor can be an analog device a digital device or a combination thereof. For example the steering angle sensor can include a rotating slotted disc an LED light and a detector. The LED light is positioned to transmit light through the slotted disc to then be collected by the detector. The detector can output a signal based on whether or not any light is detected according to the slit position. By knowing the slit positions and counting the number of times light no light are detected the rotation speed and direction can be determined. The OMS can utilize a dedicated steering angle sensor or the OMS can utilize an existing sensor integrated in the steering wheel assembly and or other vehicle component.

In various implementations the OMS is associated with control circuitry for controlling its operation. For example the OMS can be associated with circuitry for controlling operation of the vehicle occupant imaging system including for example operation of the camera and or light source . In an exemplary implementation the OMS may be wired directly to the control circuitry of the steering wheel assembly . For example the light source can be wired through an inline resistor to a steering wheel assembly power source not shown .

In some implementations the OMS includes a processing unit . The processing unit can be configured to provide operation instructions to from the vehicle and various OMS components. The processing unit can be configured to direct operation of the OMS . The processing unit can be part of and disposed adjacent the vehicle occupant imaging system and or disposed on or otherwise associated with the electronic control unit ECU of the vehicle. In a further implementation the processing unit may be located on or otherwise associated with another vehicle system. Where the processing unit is associated with a system other than the OMS communication lines i.e. data and or power wires may be provided between the alternate system and the OMS . For example the OMS may be connected to the vehicle s electronic control unit ECU by one or more wires extending between the ECU unit and the vehicle occupant imaging system of the OMS . Furthermore in certain implementations the steering angle sensor is electrically coupled to the processing unit .

When the logical operations described herein are implemented in software the process may execute on any type of computing architecture or platform. For example the functions of the OMS may be implemented on any type of computing architecture or platform.

The implementation shown in illustrates computing device processing unit upon which implementations disclosed herein may be implemented. The processing unit can include a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information among various components of the processing unit . In its most basic configuration processing unit typically includes at least one processor and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by a dashed line . The processor may be a standard programmable processor that performs arithmetic and logic operations necessary for operation of the processing unit .

The processing unit can have additional features functionality. For example the processing unit may include additional storage such as removable storage and non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tapes. For example the processing unit may be configured for storing at least a portion of the image signals received to one or more of the storage . In one implementation the image signals or a portion thereof may be stored on the non removable storage so as to keep the image signals secure. In addition the image signals may be stored and or transmitted in full or as a set of data related to portions of the image signals such as data related to occupant information parameters described below.

In addition the processing unit may be configured for storing feature information related to image signals captured of at least one vehicle occupants just prior to the vehicle being turned off. This feature information may be stored in a temporary memory area that may be part of storage for example or is separate from storage . When the vehicle is started up again the feature information may be retrieved by the processing unit to accelerate startup of the OMS . In some implementations the feature information may be stored for one or more of the prior vehicle shut downs. In one implementation storing feature information for several of the prior vehicle shut downs increases the likelihood that the feature information stored includes information related to the at least one of the occupants in the vehicle at the next start up.

The processing unit can also contain network connection s via a network interface controller that allow the device to communicate with other devices. The processing unit can also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse touch screen antenna or other systems configured to communicate with the OMS imaging unit light source and or steering angle sensor in the system described above etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. The additional devices can be connected to the bus in order to facilitate communication of data among the components of the processing unit .

The processor can be configured to execute program code encoded in tangible computer readable media. Computer readable media refers to any media that is capable of providing data that causes the processing unit i.e. a machine to operate in a particular fashion. Various computer readable media can be utilized to provide instructions to the processor for execution. Common forms of computer readable media include for example magnetic media optical media physical media memory chips or cartridges a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. Example computer readable media can include but is not limited to volatile media non volatile media and transmission media. Volatile and non volatile media can be implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data and common forms are discussed in detail below. Transmission media can include coaxial cables copper wires and or fiber optic cables as well as acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communication. Example tangible computer readable recording media include but are not limited to an integrated circuit e.g. field programmable gate array or application specific IC a hard disk an optical disk a magneto optical disk a floppy disk a magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state device RAM ROM electrically erasable program read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices.

In an exemplary implementation the processor can execute program code stored in the system memory . For example the bus can carry data to the system memory from which the processor receives and executes instructions. The data received by the system memory can optionally be stored on the removable storage or the non removable storage before or after execution by the processor .

The processing unit typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the processing unit and includes both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media. Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM electrically erasable program read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the processing unit . Any such computer storage media can be part of the processing unit .

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein can be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination thereof. Thus the methods systems and associated signal processing of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof can take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computing device the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs can implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs can be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language can be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.

In some implementations the system memory includes computer executable instructions stored thereon that when executed by the processor can be used to direct operation of the OMS to monitor the driver e.g. capture an image of the driver determine a driver state and provide an output signal based on the determined driver state. For example the processor can direct operation of the imaging unit and or the light source . In particular the imaging unit can be directed to capture an image of the imaging area and output the captured image signal to the processor . The imaging unit may also be configured for communicating data associated with the image signal to the processor . The processor can analyze the image signal from the imaging unit to determine information about the operator state and or identify portions of the image signal that may provide information about the operator state.

In other implementations the processor may communicate all or a portion of the image signal and or calculated data based on all or a portion of the image signal to another processor s disposed remotely from processor . The other processor may be configured for using the received image signal or portions thereof or data to determine a driver or occupant state.

For example the processor can receive the image signal from the imaging unit and process the image signal to identify an analysis region. The analysis region can be a region of the imaging area associated with the driver non driving vehicle occupant and or other region of interest within or external to the vehicle. Identifying the analysis region can comprise determining the position and or orientation of the driver s head and or eyes. The analysis region can comprise the determined position of the driver s head and or eyes.

The analysis region can be analyzed by the processor or another processor to determine an occupant information parameter. The occupant information parameter can include for example information about the occupant corresponding to the occupant s alertness and or attention or a state of the occupant or vehicle that would prevent the imaging unit from capturing relevant data associated with the occupant. The occupant information parameter can include the position and or orientation e.g. yaw pitch roll of the occupant s head the rate of movement of the occupant s head the dimensions of the occupant s head determination if the occupant is wearing a certain article that can affect the image signal e.g. a hat glasses sunglass contact lenses makeup jewelry etc. movement of the occupant s mouth e.g. determining if the occupant is talking yawning singing sneezing etc. movement of the occupant s nose e.g. determining if the occupant is breathing sneezing etc. movement of the occupant s eyes e.g. squinting blinking blink rate saccades smooth pursuit movements vergence movements vestibule ocular movements etc. movement and or position of the occupant s eye lids gaze vector heart rate workload occupant identification features occupant age estimates facial musculature movements e.g. movements associated with expression pain squinting blinking talking sneezing singing sleeping physical impairment etc. and or the position and or orientation of the occupant s eyes. Accordingly the analysis region can be analyzed to determine a deviation in the position and or orientation of the occupant s head and or eyes from a predetermined position.

One or more of the occupant information parameters can be analyzed to determine an occupant state. The occupant state can include for example whether the occupant s eyes are open or closed whether or not the occupant is looking at the road the center console or elsewhere whether or not the occupant is distracted the relative alertness of the occupant the occupant s emotion s e.g. angry sad happy excited nervous afraid etc. the occupant s physical condition e.g. sleepy hungry ill impaired etc. and or the occupant s demeanor e.g. posture eating drinking giving verbal commands completing manual tasks direction of eye gaze interested etc. and the like. Accordingly analyzing the occupant information parameter to determine the occupant state can include determining that the position and or orientation of the occupant head and or eyes are deviated from a predetermined position. Analyzing the occupant information parameter may also include determining that the position and or orientation of the occupant head and or eyes are deviated from the predetermined position for at least a predetermined amount of time. Other examples include assessing the occupant s visual distraction level e.g. occupant state through monitoring the occupant s eye pupil vectors relative to the position of the windshield e.g. occupant information parameter . Features of the mouth such as corners and average separation of the lips can be monitored to determine when a particular occupant is speaking and audio signals captured in the vehicle may be correlated with the mouth features by a speech recognition system e.g. such as used in hand s free processing systems to filter out speech from unintended occupants and or background noise. Monitoring the motion of the noise and or mouth can be used to infer an estimate of respiration rate which can be used for example to assess if the occupant has stopped breathing or if respiration rate is elevated which can occur during certain perturbed emotional states or medical emergencies. Monitoring the luminance of the face can be used to assess the appearance of sweat beads which can be used to assess the occupant s comfort e.g. determine if the climate controls should be adjusted and or fitness level e.g. occupant is ill and or experiencing a medical event . In addition the intensity of the light source may be altered to compensate for ambient light to minimize the visibility of the light source and or to adjust for the skin tone of the occupant within the imaging area. Spectral analysis of the signal collected from the camera can be used to derive and or estimate physiological response such as skin heating cooling and or electrocardial activity and rates. A wide range of occupant information parameters can be monitored to derive or estimate a wide range of occupant states which for example can be used to establish unique health and behavior characteristics for individual occupants that can enhance the safety health comfort and convenience of the driver and other occupants.

In certain implementations the processor can output a signal based on the occupant state. In some implementations the output signal can be the image signal corrected for the angle of rotation of the steering wheel assembly and or the rate of angular rotation of the steering wheel assembly . The output signal can also be instructions to adjust the imaging unit to correct for the angle of rotation of the steering wheel assembly and or the rate of angular rotation of the steering wheel assembly as discussed above. The output signal s can also be used by other vehicle systems to establish baseline occupant characteristics e.g. health attention behavior establish thresholds for actuating other vehicle systems e.g. control warning systems and provide real time occupant state features that can be compared against actuation thresholds.

The output signal can comprise an electrical signal a wifi signal or the like. The output signal can be output to another vehicle system to provide information about the occupant state to that vehicle system. In some implementations the output signal can be provided to another vehicle system that can for example change vehicle parameters based on the driver state e.g. adjust the sensitivity of the steering wheel brakes and or accelerator turn on or off music adjust the volume of music change the type of music turn on off interior lights adjust the cabin temperature inject a smell adjust the wavelength and or intensity of light being emitted by the light source reduce or remove degrees of freedom for the operation of the vehicle from the driver notify emergency services modify thresholds of automation etc. .

And in some implementations the output signal may include instructions for OMS or another vehicle system to illuminate or alter the intensity of a light source play a sound and or provide tactile feedback to the driver or other occupant via a haptic feedback device e.g. vibration heat cooling etc. . The light sound and or haptic feedback may be used to warn the driver or other occupant for example. In one implementation the light to be illuminated may include a light bar system which may part of or the same light bar described above or a separate light bar disposed on another portion of the steering wheel assembly or elsewhere in the vehicle. Exemplary light bar systems are described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 061 397 entitled Steering Wheel Light Bar and filed on Oct. 23 2013 Ser. No. 14 061 383 entitled Steering Wheel Light Bar and filed on Oct. 23 2013 and Ser. No. 14 061 408 entitled Steering Wheel Light Bar and filed on Oct. 23 2013 and pending U.S. provisional patent application 62 027 969 entitled Steering Grip Light Bar Systems filed Jul. 23 2014. These four applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. The haptic feedback device may include a heater pad disposed around the rim of steering wheel assembly or a vibratory exciter e.g. a speaker disposed within the rim or hub of the steering wheel assembly for example.

Before after and or during analysis of the image signal received from the imaging unit the processor can be used to adjust the imaging unit and or received image signal based on the status of the steering wheel assembly . The processor may also be used to adjust the light source based on the status of the steering wheel assembly . As will be described in more detail below the processor can analyze an electrical signal from the steering angle sensor to obtain information about the angle of rotation of the steering wheel assembly and or the rate of angular rotation of the steering wheel assembly and adjust the imaging unit image signal based on that information. For example the processor can receive an electrical signal from the steering angle sensor and process the electrical signal to identify the orientation angle of rotation of the steering wheel assembly and or the rate of angular rotation of the steering wheel assembly. The received signal from the steering angle sensor may be analyzed to adjust the imaging unit and or the image signal to compensate for the angle of rotation of the steering wheel assembly and or the rate of angular rotation of the steering wheel assembly . For example the imaging unit may be adjusted to rotate or zoom in or out based on the signal from the steering angle sensor . In another example the image signal captured that corresponds to the imaging area may be adjusted to correct for the angle of rotation of the steering wheel assembly and or the rate of angular rotation of the steering wheel assembly .

Adjusting the imaging unit and or light source to correct for the angle of rotation of the steering wheel assembly and or the rate of angular rotation of the steering wheel assembly can include for example accounting for a change in geometry between the imaging unit and the occupant such as the driver adjusting the shutter speed and or frame rate of the camera adjusting the intensity of the light being emitted from the light source adjusting which light source is active at a given time adjusting the angle of the camera lens adjusting the gain focus and or optical filter of the camera adjusting the wavelength or range of wavelengths of light emitted from the light source and the like or a combination thereof.

The image signal captured that corresponds to the imaging area can also be adjusted to correct for the angle of rotation of the steering wheel assembly and or the rate of angular rotation of the steering wheel assembly . Adjusting the image signal can include for example adjusting the contrast of the image signal adjusting the orientation of the image signal adjusting the gain of the image signal accounting for a change in geometry between the imaging unit and the driver or other occupant e.g. transforming the coordinate system of the image signal accounting for distortion and or blur in the image signal and the like.

The analysis of the image signal from the imaging unit and or the electrical signal output from the steering angle sensor is described above as being carried out by processor . However in other implementations the functions described above may be carried out in whole or in part on one or more additional processors and or processing units. For example the OMS can comprise one or more additional processing units and or processors.

In some implementations the OMS can further comprise a disabling unit configured to temporarily disable all or some of the OMS operations when a driver signal is received. The driver signal can be indicative of the driver performing some operation that would prevent proper operation of the OMS . The driver signal can include for example a signal output upon rotation of the steering wheel assembly of the vehicle by at least a predetermined amount and or for a predetermined amount of time. For example the driver signal can be output when the driver rotates the steering wheel assembly to turn the vehicle. The signal indicating rotation of the steering wheel assembly can for example be obtained from the steering wheel assembly angle sensor . The driver signal can in some implementations cease to be output when the steering wheel is returned to a substantially central position for at least a predetermined amount of time. For example the driver signal can cease to be output when the driver has completed the turn of the corner and resumed normal driving.

The rate and or angle of rotation of the steering wheel assembly can also be determined by analyzing sequential signals from the camera to monitor the change in position of reliable fixed features of the vehicle within the imaging area e.g. position of doors position of windows position of roof . Furthermore such reliable fixed features can be added to the vehicle within the imaging area to function as reference features to be used by the OMS . For example optically transparent but IR visible symbols or shapes can be placed on the vehicle seat headliner and or seat belt in an a priori pattern which can be used by the OMS to derive the angle of rotation of the steering wheel assembly.

In some implementations the OMS can communicate data through an automotive clock spring such as the automotive clock spring described in relation to below. Exemplary automotive clock springs include a rotary type electrical connection that permits rotation of the rotatable portion of the steering wheel assembly while maintaining an electrical connection between vehicle system components disposed on the rotating portion of the steering wheel assembly and components disposed outside of the rotating portion. In certain implementations the automotive clock spring can be used to electrically couple the imaging unit to at least one other vehicle system during rotation of steering wheel assembly . Furthermore the clock spring can also electrically couple the imaging unit the light source and the steering angle sensor to a power source such as the vehicle battery and or a processing unit disposed outside of the rotating portion of the steering wheel assembly.

The clock spring further includes processor disposed in the rotor processor disposed in the stator steering angle sensor disposed in the stator a set of wires extending between and electrically coupling processors and electrical connectors disposed on a face of a housing of the rotor wires extending between the electrical connectors respectively and the processor and an electrical connector disposed on a face of a housing for the stator .

In the implementation shown in the steering angle sensor is disposed in the housing of the stator . The steering angle sensor is electrically coupled to the set of wires that electrically couple the processors and . Thus the angle of rotation or rate of angular rotation captured by the steering angle sensor may be electrically communicated to the processor or processor via wires . According to other implementations not shown as noted above the steering angle sensor may be disposed in the housing of the rotor or between another set of non rotating and rotating components of the steering wheel assembly.

The implementation in also includes electrical connectors disposed on the face of the housing of the rotor . The connectors are configured for receiving mating connectors from the imaging unit and light source which as described above are disposed on a rotating portion of the steering wheel assembly . In one implementation the electrical wires from the imaging unit and light source may be routed to the electrical connectors through the steering shaft to keep the wires hidden and out of the way of the vehicle operator. The connectors allow for more efficient installation of the imaging unit and the light source onto the steering wheel assembly . Furthermore although only two connectors are shown in in other implementations there may be one or more than two connectors. For example there may be an electrical connector for each imaging unit and light source of the OMS .

In some implementations such as shown in the connectors are coupled to the processor via lengths of insulated electrical wires that extend out of the face of the housing of the rotor e.g. pigtails toward the rotation portion of the steering wheel assembly .

The set of electrical wires may be coupled adjacent each other via a flat tape that includes the electrical wires separated by a dielectric material . The electrical tape is configured to wrap and unwrap around the rotor during rotation of the steering wheel assembly without losing a connection between the processors and without breaking the wires within the tape . The image signals or calculated data electrically communicated through the wires of the tape may also be communicated to another processing unit of the OMS disposed outside of the clock spring or another vehicle system disposed outside of the clock spring via the electrical connector disposed on the housing of the stator . The stator connector and the wires of the tape may also be used to electrically communicate data and or signals between components mounted on the rotating portion of the steering wheel and other vehicle systems such as cruise control air bag and vehicle safety systems steering heating control audio and user communication systems and the dynamic stability control system. Furthermore processed image signals and or data related thereto may be communicated by processor and or to other vehicle systems such as for example vehicle safety systems user communication systems and in vehicle and external passive sensors e.g. passenger driver occupant sensor s rear occupant sensor s reverse camera external radars etc. . And in a further implementation processor and or may receive data from these other vehicle systems. The data received by the processor and or may be used by the processor to identify which portions of the image signal should be selected and processed further and or communicated to these systems or other vehicle systems.

The depth of the clock spring may be increased as compared to conventional clock springs to accommodate the addition of one or more of processors into the clock spring according to certain implementations. For example in one implementation the depth of the clock spring which extends in a direction parallel to the rotational axis of the rotor is increased from about 30 millimeters to between about 60 and about 70 millimeters. The diameter of the clock spring is kept generally the same as convention clock springs so as to fit within the steering column of the vehicle.

In one implementation the tape may include eight wires or traces laid out side by side and separated by dielectric material . The dielectric material shields the wires from electrical interference with each other and other components in the clock spring and steering column . The tape is wound tightly around the rotor about 3.5 turns to allow the steering wheel assembly to be rotated and the tape to unwind and wind with the rotation of the steering wheel assembly . However in other implementations the tape may include more than or less than eight wires and may be wound one or more turns around the rotor depending on the anticipated rotational movement of the steering wheel assembly . In addition there may be more than one tape extending between the rotor and the stator . Generally the number and nature of the wiring is based on wire gauge and or the type of components mounted on the rotatable portion of the steering wheel assembly such as for example the OMS components driver air bag system steering wheel heating system human machine interface systems e.g. switches and or touch sensitive surfaces configured for receiving input from a user the light bar feedback system and the horn.

Processors and each include a plurality of stacked arcuate shaped printed circuit boards. The arcuate shape of the processor allows them to fit within the rotor and stator of the clock spring without interfering with the rotation of the rotor and movement of the wires between the rotor and stator . And stacking the printed circuit boards provides sufficient surface area for the processors to perform the functions described herein. However in other implementations there may be only one arcuate shaped printed circuit board or the printed circuit boards may be flat and or not stacked.

Processors and are similar to processor and separately or together may perform one or more functions of processor described above according to various implementations. The functions to be performed by each processor may be selected based on several factors including for example the rate at which the image signals are being captured the size of the image signals the number of imaging units and light sources disposed on the rotating portion of the steering wheel assembly and the ability of the housing and or the steering wheel assembly to dissipate thermal energy from the heat generating components. For example in certain implementations the processor may be configured for electrically receiving image signals captured by the imaging unit and selecting at least a portion of the image signals for communicating to the processor electrically receiving at least one of an angle of rotation or rate of angular rotation of the steering wheel assembly from the steering angle sensor and adjusting an orientation of the image signals based on the received angle of rotation or rate of angular rotation electrically receiving at least one of an angle of rotation or rate of angular rotation of the steering wheel assembly from the steering angle sensor and adjusting the imaging unit based on the received angle of rotation or rate of angular rotation compressing the selected image signals prior to communicating the image signals to the processor controlling an amount of light emitted from the light source and saving at least a portion of the selected image signals to a memory. In some implementations selecting at least a portion of the image signals for communicating to the processor includes identifying and selecting one or more portions of the image signal related to one or more occupant information parameters.

Furthermore in certain implementations the memory may be disposed on the printed circuit board s in the rotor elsewhere in the rotor outside of the rotor e.g. in the stator or in another portion of the vehicle or a combination thereof.

In other implementations the processor may be configured for selecting at least a portion of the image signals related to occupant information parameters calculating data from the selected signals and communicating the calculated data to the processor

In yet another implementation which is shown schematically in a processor may be disposed adjacent the imaging unit . This processor may be configured for electrically receiving image signals captured by the imaging unit and selecting at least a portion of the image signals for communicating to processor and or calculating data from the selected signals.

In addition in an implementation in which processor is configured for compressing the image signal prior to communicating the image signal to processor processor may be configured for decompressing the compressed image signals.

Although illustrate the light source as being electrically coupled to the processor one or more light sources may instead be coupled to and controlled by the processor via wires or to other processors disposed in the rotor and or stator according to other implementations not shown . For example one of the connectors may be coupled to processor via wire or and wires such that the light source that is coupled to the connector is electrically coupled to the processor . In such an implementation the processor is configured for controlling the light source .

As noted above processor may be configured for identifying and selecting at least a portion of the image signals related to one or more occupant information parameters for communicating to the processor . In certain implementations the processor is further configured for smoothing filtering and or analyzing the received image signals.

Processors and may also be electrically coupled to a power source disposed within the vehicle via the stator connector and wires . Power from the power source is available to the imaging unit and the light source via one or more of the processors according to certain implementations. In other implementations not shown power may be available directly to the imaging unit and light source via individual wires coupled to wires .

In some implementations if the physical size of processor is sufficient to throw the rotation of the rotor off balance a counter balance may be included in the rotor opposite the processor to balance the rotational momentum of the rotor .

Various implementations provide an improved packaging solution for image detection systems within a vehicle. In particular by processing the image signal in processor disposed within the rotor of the clock spring the raw image signal from the imaging unit is received and processed closer to the imaging unit which prevents loss or interference with the signal that may occur over longer distances between the imaging unit and the processor. This arrangement also allows for efficient communication of the image signals used for determining occupant information parameters which improves the operation of the occupant monitoring system . In particular if the imaging unit is configured to capture image signals at a rate of 60 frames per second the processor receiving the image signals would need to process 20 megabytes of data every 10 seconds. Such requirements could require a processor that is physically too large to install within a typical clock spring. Furthermore there are too few wires within typical clock springs to accommodate the transmission at that data transmission rate. Thus various implementations overcome these constraints by including a first processing unit in the rotor that is configured for selecting at least a portion of the image signals received and communicating the selected portion of image signals or calculated data from the selected portion of image signals to a second processing unit outside of the rotor for further processing and analysis.

Although the implementations described above describe the clock spring as used with components of the OMS clock spring may be coupled to other data acquisition systems and or systems acquiring signals having a relatively high bandwidth. For example in various implementations at least one data acquisition unit may be mounted on a rotatable portion of a vehicle steering wheel assembly that is rotatable about a steering column. The first processing unit disposed within the rotor is configured for electrically receiving signals captured by the data acquisition unit and selecting at least a portion of the signals for communicating to a second processing unit. The second processing unit is disposed outside of the rotor in the vehicle e.g. in the stator or outside of the stator and is electrically coupled to the set of electrical wires extending between the rotor and the stator. The selected signals are electrically communicated through the set of electrical wires.

In other implementations such as shown in a slip ring SR may be used instead of a clock spring to route electrical wires extending between the rotatable portion of the steering wheel assembly and the non rotatable portions of the steering wheel assembly and or steering column . The slip ring SR includes a rotor portion R and a stator portion S. The rotor portion R is coupled to the rotating portion of the steering wheel assembly and defines a hollow shaft Hr extending around its axis of rotation C. The rotor portion R is engaged within a hollow shaft Hs of the stator portion S such that the rotor portion R can rotate within the hollow shaft Hs of the stator portion S about the axis of rotation C. The stator portion S is coupled to a stationary portion of the steering wheel assembly or steering column . The rotor portion R may also include an annular lip A that extends radially outwardly from one end of the rotor portion R and axially engages an outer axial end E of the stator portion S to prevent axial movement of the rotor portion R relative to the stator portion S. The electrical wires from components of the OMS and other systems that may be disposed on the rotatable portion of the steering wheel assembly extend through the hollow shaft Hr of the rotor portion R and are configured to rotate with the rotor portion R.

In some implementations the OMS can be constructed as a single modular unit. For example the single modular unit can be a self contained unit including the camera light source and or the processing unit or a portion thereof. When constructed as a single modular unit the OMS can be conveniently packaged and conveniently installed in any steering wheel assembly . The single modular unit can be coupled to the steering wheel assembly using any suitable fastening mechanism such as for example screws hooks clips or any other form of mechanical fastener known in the art or adhesive e.g. gluing soldering welding or any other fastening technique known in the art. Configuring the OMS as a single modular unit can allow for commonization of the electronics e.g. integration and therefore faster electronic communication.

The mounting bracket may be formed of aluminum a magnesium alloy steel or other suitable material capable of supporting the OMS components and transferring at least a portion of the heat generated from the components to the frame of the steering wheel assembly . The mounting bracket may also be integrally formed or molded with the central portion of the steering wheel assembly .

The housing includes a back surface that is disposed adjacent to the back cover of the steering wheel assembly an upper surface that extends transversely to the back surface and side surfaces that extend downwardly from side edges of the upper surface and transversely from the back surface . The back surface side surfaces and upper surface define an area therebetween that is configured for fitting around at least a portion of the body of the mounting bracket . The upper surface may include fins that extend in the direction from a front perimeter of the housing to the back surface and are distinct and spaced apart from each other in the direction between the side surfaces . These fins provide more surface area so as to be a more effective heat sink and provide structural reinforcement for the upper surface of the housing .

In the implementation shown in the back surface fits flush with or within the same plane as the back cover of the steering wheel assembly . However in the implementations shown in the back surfaces respectively are not flush with the back covers respectively but are disposed in a plane that is spaced inwardly toward the front of the assembly respectively from the plane that includes the back covers .

In the implementations shown in the upper surface and side surfaces of the housing define a substantially rectangular shaped perimeter. The perimeter may be slightly arcuate shaped along the upper surface and or have rounded corners between the upper and side surfaces to blend in aesthetically with the steering wheel assembly .

However in the implementation shown in the upper surface of the housing defines a perimeter that includes a rounded semi circular central portion that extends upwardly from the steering wheel assembly and the side surfaces of the housing are angled or skewed toward each other and the central portion . This shape may blend in aesthetically with the shape of steering wheel assembly shown in . And in the implementation shown in the upper surface of the housing defines a perimeter that includes a trapezoidal shaped central portion that extends upwardly from the steering wheel assembly . Side surfaces of the housing are angled or skewed toward each other and the central portion . This shape may blend in aesthetically with the shape of the steering wheel assembly shown in .

The imaging unit is coupled to the mounting bracket adjacent a central portion of the body of the mounting bracket . In the implementation shown in the imaging unit is camera that includes a lens such as for example an adjustable lens or a fixed lens. The camera lens is disposed at a distal end of the camera and light enters the camera via the lens . In the implementation shown in the camera lens is secured to the camera using at least one side set screw and camera is coupled to the mounting bracket using screws . However as noted above other types of imaging units may be used in other implementations and other fastening mechanisms may be used to couple the camera to the mounting bracket and or within the housing .

In addition in some implementations the light source is coupled to the mounting bracket and is disposed adjacent the imaging unit . For example in the implementation shown in the light source includes two printed circuit boards each having four pairs of LEDs disposed thereon. One of the printed circuit boards is coupled to the mounting bracket on a right side of the imaging unit and the other printed circuit board is coupled to the mounting bracket on a left side of the imaging unit . A thermal coupling material configured for transferring heat between the printed circuit board and the mounting bracket is disposed between the printed circuit board and the mounting bracket . The thermal coupling material may be a thermal coupling pad such as a foam pad having thermally conductive materials disposed therein or a thermal coupling paste for example. The pad for example may include adhesive on both sides for attaching to a back surface of the printed circuit boards and a front surface of base of the mounting bracket . In addition to the adhesive or as an alternative to the adhesive each pad may define openings that align with openings defined in the printed circuit board and the mounting bracket for receiving a screw to secure the pad and the printed circuit board to the mounting bracket .

In various implementations the light emitted from the light source may internally reflect from the lens or otherwise reach the camera lens or other type of imaging unit before passing through the lens . To prevent the light from the light source from entering the imaging unit prior to exiting the lens a light blocking material may be disposed between a distal end of the imaging unit and the light source . For example as shown in a ring of compressible material such as a polymeric foam silicone rubber etc. may be extend between a distal end of the camera lens and the back surface of the lens . The ring is annular shaped to correspond to the outer perimeter of the camera lens but in other implementations the ring may be shaped to correspond to the perimeter of other types of imaging units . The compressible material allows the camera lens to be adjusted e.g. zoom in or out in the direction of the lens while maintaining contact with compressible material. In other implementations the light blocking material may be disposed between the printed circuit boards and the lens to prevent light from the LEDs from being received into the imaging unit prior to exiting the lens . In other implementations the light blocking material may extend between the imaging unit or mounting bracket and the OMS lens .

Furthermore the light blocking material may be secured in position using various fastening mechanisms such as for example screws hooks clips or any other form of mechanical fastener known in the art or adhesive e.g. gluing soldering welding or any other fastening technique known in the art a thread e.g. a DSLR camera filter ring and or a combination thereof.

As shown in the electrical wires coupling the light source and the imaging unit to at least one processor and or power source may be extended from the central portion of the steering wheel assembly through the opening in the back cover configured for coupling to the steering shaft . As noted above the wires may be electrically coupled to processor in the rotor processor in the stator of the automotive clock spring and or to one or more processors disposed outside of the automotive clock spring . Furthermore in some implementations the wires may be coupled to processor disposed within the housing and the processor may be coupled to the mounting bracket or be otherwise disposed in the housing . As noted above the processor may be coupled to processor in the rotor of the automotive clock spring and or the processor in the stator of the clock spring . And in some implementations the processor may be disposed on one or both of the printed circuit boards shown in . Furthermore in one implementation not shown the OMS may include one printed circuit board on which the processor and the light source are disposed.

The lens includes a front surface a back surface opposite the front surface an upper perimeter a lower perimeter and side perimeters extending between the upper and lower perimeters . The back surface is disposed facing the imaging unit the front surface is disposed facing the interior of the vehicle.

In an implementation in which the imaging unit detects infrared image signals the lens may be configured for optically blocking visible light and allowing infrared light to pass through the lens . For example the lens may be formed from of poly methyl methacrylate PMMA or other acrylic like material. In the implementation shown in the lens is formed from ACRYLITE which is a PMMA acrylic 1146 0 grade black material manufactured by Evonik Industries. ACRYLITE is opaque to visible light but allows the transmission of infrared light starting at about 750 nanometers. ACRYLITE also blocks the transmission of ultraviolet light. illustrates the percentage of light that passes through ACRYLITE at various wavelengths. As shown no light under about 750 nanometers passes through the ACRYLITE. The lens may further be cut from a sheet of the visible light blocking material or molded to a particular shape.

In other implementations the lens may be formed from any polycarbonate material such as for example polycarbonate e.g. LEXAN acrylonitrile butadiene styrene polycarbonate ABS PC PC ABS acrylic styrene acrylonitrile terpolymer polycarbonate ASA PC or other plastics that include polycarbonate as a major alloying element. In addition the lens may be formed from glass cellulose acetate butyrate CAB or butyrate glycol modified polyethylene terephthalate PET G or other polymers for example.

Furthermore in some implementations an optical film or coating paint may be applied to one or both of the back surface or front surface of the lens that blocks visible and or UV light and allows transmission of infrared light.

In the implementations shown in a trim piece and a lens support piece are used to prevent movement of the lens relative to the housing and steering wheel assembly . In particular the trim piece includes an upper portion and side portions . The upper portion is shaped to follow the shape of the front perimeter of the upper portion of housing and the side portions are shaped to follow the shape of the front perimeter of side portions of the housing . The lens is disposed between the front perimeter of the housing and the trim piece to secure the upper perimeter and side perimeters of the lens from movement relative to the housing . In addition the lens support piece has an elongated body and includes an upper surface that defines a channel extending along a length of the elongated body. The lens support piece is disposed adjacent where the mounting bracket is coupled to the steering wheel assembly and extends between the front perimeters of the side portions of the trim piece . At least a portion of the lower perimeter of the lens engages the channel to prevent movement of the lower perimeter of the lens relative to the housing . The lens support piece may also cover a gap between the central hub of the steering wheel assembly and the lower perimeter of the lens . However in other implementations the lens may be secured to the housing without any trim or lens support pieces it may be secured by single or multiple trim pieces or it may be secured by the housing and the lens support piece without any trim pieces.

The trim piece includes tabs that extend inwardly from each of the side portions . Each tab defines an opening that aligns with openings defined through the housing and openings defined through the mounting bracket . To secure the trim piece and the housing to the mounting bracket a screw is engaged through aligned openings on each side of the trim piece housing and mounting bracket .

The trim piece may be formed of a rigid material such as a plastic metal glass or ceramic material. In addition in the trim piece may be dyed coated plated or painted a particular color. For example in the implementation shown in the trim piece is coated plated or painted with a chrome color. However in other implementations the trim piece may be colored differently such as colored black or grey to match the housing or the steering wheel assembly.

Similarly the lens support piece may be formed of similar rigid materials and may also be dyed coated plated or painted a particular color. In addition the lens support piece may be coupled to the mounting bracket via screws clips adhesive or other suitable fastening mechanism. In the implementation shown in the lens support piece includes bosses that extend from a lower surface of the lens support piece . The bosses define openings that align with openings defined in the mounting bracket . A screw is engaged in the aligned opening in the lens support piece and the mounting bracket to secure the lens support piece adjacent the mounting bracket . In the implementations shown in various components of the OMS are coupled to the central portion of the steering wheel assembly. By coupling the imaging unit to the central portion such as is described above the imaging unit is closer to one or more occupants in the vehicle cabin and can thus receive higher resolution image signals of the imaging area than when the imaging unit is disposed further from the occupants in the vehicle such as on the steering column or elsewhere in the vehicle cabin. Furthermore coupling the imaging unit to the central portion allows for a greater field of view when the image signals are adjusted based on steering angle or a rate of angular rotation. In addition by coupling the imaging unit to the rotatable portion of the steering wheel assembly the field of view of the imaging unit is not further obscured by the rotatable portions of the steering wheel assembly when the position of the steering wheel assembly relative to the driver is tilted upwardly or extended.

In addition in the implementations described above in relation to the imaging unit is not visible to the driver or other occupants which prevents the OMS from distracting or intimidating the driver or other occupants. Furthermore the modularity of the implementations described above in relation to allows the OMS to be integrated more quickly and easily into existing and new steering wheel assemblies . By disposing the housing and other components adjacent the back cover of the steering wheel assembly it is easier to route the electrical wires from the OMS components and allows the housing to be coupled to a non deployable surface as compared to coupling the components closer to the deployable surface of the driver air bag area. Furthermore by having the OMS disposed on the upper portion of the hub of the steering wheel assembly the OMS has an unobstructed view of the occupants of the vehicle even during steering wheel assembly rotation and the OMS is disposed just below the instrument panel in the field of the view of the driver which may reduce the amount of distraction.

As provided herein the OMS can be used to monitor a driver or other occupant in a vehicle. Using the OMS to monitor the driver or other occupant can include providing and or coupling the OMS to the steering wheel assembly of the vehicle. The OMS can include any all of the OMS components described herein. As outlined above the OMS can include the imaging unit configured to capture an image signal corresponding to imaging area in the vehicle where the imaging area encapsulates the driver and or other vehicle occupant. The imaging unit can be configured to rotate with the central portion of the steering wheel assembly . The steering wheel assembly can be configured to rotate relative to the vehicle s steering column .

Monitoring the driver and or occupant can further include capturing an image signal corresponding to the imaging area in the vehicle and processing the image signal to identify an analysis region. The analysis region can be analyzed to determine an occupant information parameter and the occupant information parameter can in turn be analyzed to determine an occupant state. An output signal can then be provided based on the determined occupant state. In some implementations the OMS can further include a processing unit to perform one or more of the processing analyzing and outputting steps of the OMS . The vehicle can also include a processing unit separate from the OMS where one or more of the processing analyzing and outputting steps of the OMS are performed by this remote processing unit .

While the foregoing description and drawings represent the preferred implementation of the present invention it will be understood that various additions modifications combinations and or substitutions may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined in the accompanying claims. In particular it will be clear to those skilled in the art that the present invention may be embodied in other specific forms structures arrangements proportions and with other elements materials and components without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. One skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be used with many modifications of structure arrangement proportions materials and components and otherwise used in the practice of the invention which are particularly adapted to specific environments and operative requirements without departing from the principles of the present invention. In addition features described herein may be used singularly or in combination with other features. The presently disclosed implementations are therefore to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive the scope of the invention being indicated by the appended claims and not limited to the foregoing description.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes could be made to the implementations described above without departing from the broad inventive concept thereof. It is understood therefore that this invention is not limited to the particular implementations disclosed but it is intended to cover modifications within the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the following claims.

