---

title: Communication and action approval system and method
abstract: A computer-based method for real-time communication authorization includes receiving, from a first communication device, a communication request, verifying, with a verification engine, a pre-approval status of the communication request, storing the communication request in an approval queue if the communication authorization the pre-approval status is set to false, issuing an alert to the authorization device, and receiving one or more authorization parameters from an authorization device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09537910&OS=09537910&RS=09537910
owner: PRYVY, LLC
number: 09537910
owner_city: Las Vegas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141020
---
This application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Application 61 892 759 filed on Oct. 18 2013 the contents of the which are incorporated herein by reference.

In today s world most children want to communicate with their friends using telephones SMS MMS and chat technologies as well as private and public status and media photo video sharing web native and mobile apps. Most children also want to visit websites watch videos play games shop bank and do many other things that adults enjoy doing with web native and mobile apps.

The use of such communication systems by children presents a number of problems. One such problem is that if parents or guardians allow children to have communication means e.g. email text messaging chat etc. they cannot control with whom the children communicate. Another related problem is allowing children to communicate with other children and adults that are part of the groups e.g. teams classes camps religious associations etc. in which they participate. A further problem is that if parents or guardians allow children to use other web native and mobile apps e.g. shopping online or playing a community game through an app or device they have no way of controlling with whom a child communicates or whether transactions or sensitive communications with the app should be allowed e.g. whether a child is allowed to shop and buy something or whether a YouTube video requires approval before viewing . An additional problem is that if parents or guardians allow their children to use a desktop laptop or tablet mobile computer to visit websites or use apps they cannot discern what activities those children participated in after the fact or approve those activities while they were occurring.

As set forth above current communication web native and mobile app platforms do not have systems that allow parents or guardians to approve the people or groups with whom their children communicate or to approve actions children would like to perform in web native and mobile apps. Moreover these app platforms do not feature web native or mobile apps allow for tracking of activity to report back to parents or guardians.

Current monitoring services for desktops laptops and some tablets and mobile devices are complex require installation and are typically difficult to install. Additionally such services must be installed to operate concealed from all users and are not targeted to solve the specific problem of helping parents and guardians understand what their children are doing with technology so that ensuing discussion and education may take place.

Embodiments of the present disclosure are directed toward a communication social and action approval system and method. Some such embodiments are directed toward a system that works in between the child and the activity in which the child is attempting to participate or in which they are actively participating. Specifically a parent or guardian may select an option that requires their approval of communication and other web and mobile activities before they occur. Further embodiments of the invention allow parents or guardians to selectively view prior activities of their child or children. These embodiments are implemented without the need for stealth installation and with complete transparency for the child to see that they are being approved and monitored.

One embodiment of the disclosure is directed toward a non transitory computer readable medium having computer executable program code embodied thereon the computer executable program code configured to provide a secure digital citizenship service that requires parent or guardian approval of a selected communication social or other web or mobile activity before the activity can occur.

Other features and aspects of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of example the features in accordance with embodiments of the invention. The summary is not intended to limit the scope of the invention which is defined solely by the claims attached hereto.

These figures are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. It should be understood that the invention can be practiced with modification and alteration and that the invention be limited only by the claims and the equivalents thereof.

The present disclosure is directed toward a communication social and action approval system and method. In some cases the communication social and action approval system and method can be implemented as part of a secure digital citizenship service. In some embodiments the communication and action approval system is disposed between a child and the activity in which the child is attempting to participate or in which they are already actively participating. In certain embodiments a parent or guardian may select an option that requires parent or guardian approval of all communication and other web and mobile activities before they occur. In further embodiments parents can selectively view prior activities of their child or children.

Several exemplary environments in which the communication and action approval system and method may be employed will now be described.

In this example a child named Alec uses a secure digital citizenship service by searching for a friend in an area by name. If Alec successfully locates his friend he then requests approval to connect with the friend. The approval request is then sent to Alec s parent or guardian. In addition an optional notification may also be sent to the parent or guardian through email web native or mobile app notification. If Alec is unable to locate his friend he can enter the email address of his friend s parent s or guardian s to invite the friend and his family to join the secure digital citizenship service thereby restarting the approval process.

In this example a child named Belle desires to use the secure digital citizenship service to communicate with others. In the case where Belle wants to communicate with an approved friend she is allowed to do so automatically. If Belle wants to communicate via email text message chat video game embedded messenger voice or video push to talk voice or video call status or media post or voice or video message with someone who is not an approved friend she may attempt to make the communication. In operation the system intercepts the communication and sends an approval request to Belle s parent or guardian. If the parent or guardian approves the communication it is forwarded to the desired party. However no action is taken without this approval and notification of the rejection is not sent to either party. Likewise if someone other than the child attempts to initiate communication using a user name number or address and that contact point was not previously approved by the parent or guardian the communication is intercepted and placed in queue to be approved by the parent or guardian. If the approval is granted the communication is allowed through to the desired party.

Parents or guardians can configure different levels of allowed communication based on the party and the child. By way of example a parent or guardian may allow the child to talk to a particular friend but be copied on all communication whereas the parent or guardian can simply allow communication with another person or group without being copied.

In some versions of this example the level of monitoring may change over time such that in a first state communications are strictly monitored and the parent or guardian is copied on all communications but in a second less restrictive state the parent or guardian may only be copied on some or none of the communications. Multiple monitoring states are possible and the parent or guardian may manually switch between the security states or set a pre determined schedule to automatically reduce monitoring levels over time to less restrictive states as a child becomes older and more responsible. In some examples the monitoring may include monitoring for a user s disabling of the monitoring service.

In this example a web native or mobile application utilizes proprietary application programming interfaces APIs to query for selected information or to request action from the digital citizenship service. In particular the proprietary APIs can be used to i determine if child parent guardian or family accounts are valid and have been verified by other users or administrators of the digital citizenship service ii request approval from parents or guardians for a child for custom actions from within the web native or mobile app and or iii report activity within the web native or mobile app for consumption by the parent or guardian to monitor and measure such activity.

In this example the parent or guardian installs monitoring software on the target desktop laptop tablet or mobile device. When the child logs in to the target device the software is automatically started and minimized so that the child is aware that monitoring is occurring. The monitoring software then records screen shots key strokes mouse and touch activity and websites visited inside of popular browsers. Alternatively any pre existing software may be configured to utilize a digital citizenship API or proxy to communicate with a monitoring server or appliance without the need for installation of software on the target device. All of this data is then sent in batches to the digital citizenship service servers for parents or guardians to observe. Alerts for particular types of activities or values of keys typed can be set up by parents or guardians for immediate notification.

Parents and guardians may also see reports of all communication and web native and mobile app activity that is tracked by the digital citizenship service or third party applications that utilize the digital citizenship service API or proxy.

In this example the parent or guardian installs a security appliance on the families private local area network. The security appliance may register with a subscription server hosted on the Internet. The parent or guardian may then configure the security appliance to manage communication and Internet access for one or more users. In this example all of the communication authorization and monitoring functions described in Examples 1 3 are performed by the security appliance directly such that all communication and monitoring data is stored locally on the family s private network and not on a centrally hosted server.

Referring now to a system for real time communication authorization includes a user device a contact device an administrative device and a real time access control server . For example each of administrative device user device and contact device may be smart phones tablet computers laptop computers or desktop computers. User device may be a request initiating communication device with communication software installed thereon such that the device s user may desire to use the communication device to communicate with the user of the contact device . As such contact device may also be a communication device with communication software installed thereon. The communication software installed on both the user device and the contact device may be email software instant messaging or text messaging software social media software e.g. FaceBook LinkedIn Instagram or other social media communication applications video conferencing software e.g. FaceTime Skype etc. or voice communication software e.g. current cellular phone communication software Skype etc. . Without using functions of the embodiments disclosed herein a user using user contact device would be able to use any of the communication software applications described above to freely initiate receive or otherwise participate in an electronic communication protocol driven conversation with another contact using contact device . For example the electronic communication protocol driven conversation may utilize Internet communication service e.g. an electronic messenger service cellular data source e.g. voice or text Internet Communication Service e.g. email social media source or other Internet data source as would be known to one of ordinary skill in the art.

Still referring to the embodiments of the present disclosure provide a mechanism to restrict and control in real time the ability of user device to communicate via any of electronic communication protocol or with contact device . Generally in one embodiment an administrative user may first install the real time access control software application on the user device and or on contact device and register either or both the user and the contact with the real time access control server within access control list manager .

In other embodiments the real time access control software application is not installed on user device or contact device . In these embodiments user device may be registered with real time access control server such that real time access control server may directly control authorize and or restrict communications to and from the user device. For example existing software applications installed on the user device e.g. chat messenger tools short message service SMS text tools video games with embedded electronic chat tools voice communication software social media interface applications etc. may incorporate an API or proxy that communicates with real time access control server to control authorize and or restrict communications initiated with or terminating to those software applications in accordance with the systems and methods disclosed herein. In addition the administrative user may also access the real time access control software application from an administrative device and then use administrator device as an authorization device to pre approve or authorize in real time a user s ability to communicate with a contact using any of these electronic communication protocols disclosed herein or as otherwise known in the art.

Still referring to the user may trigger a communication request to the real time access control server by attempting to initiate an electronic communication protocol driven conversation with any known contact e.g. a contact who is also registered with or known to the real time access control server . As used herein a communication request may be any communication initiation through communication protocols disclosed herein such as transmission of a text message chat message social media post in game chat cellular or land based telephone call or other communication requests capable of being intercepted by a computer server. As would be appreciated by one in the art any of these requests operate on known communication protocols that include a detectable initial communication request to open a connection with a target device. A computer server such as the real time access control server disclosed herein is capable of intercepting the initial communication request inherent in these communication protocols and or connecting said communication request to a target device according to authorization criteria disclosed herein.

In some embodiments the real time access control server is configured to receive a communication request from the user device and verify a pre approval status of the communication request. Real time access control server may include access control list manager data store queue manager verification engine and communication controller . Real time access control server may receive the communication request for example through communication controller .

Still referring to communication controller may store the communication request in an approval queue managed by queue manager . Queue manager may then create a list of queued communication requests in data store . Verification engine may analyze each queued communication request to determine if the target contact for the communication request is pre approved. For example an administrator may interact with access control list manager to generate a list of pre approved communication contacts along with a list of communication authorization parameters that define the level of communication that is authorized. For example the communication authorization parameters may include parameters defining which communication protocols or are authorized for a particular target contact whether or not the communications will be logged and archived or displayed in real time on an administrative monitor window display available on administrator device and or whether the approval will be permanent or temporary e.g. a permanent approval will authorize all future communication requests for the particular target contact according to the defined communication authorization parameters whereas a temporary approval may only enable the current communications or enable communications for a limited period of time specified by the administrator .

In some embodiments the communication request may include a specified communication technology selected from a set of supported communication technologies. For example the set of supported communication technologies may include telephonic voice communication e.g. telephone or cellular phone based communication short message service SMS texting instant messaging social media messaging social media posting e.g. message posting or access to social media sites like Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Instagram or other social media website video conference video game messaging email or electronic interaction retail vendors e.g. access to e commerce websites to make purchases including Internet sites such as Amazon Netflix iTunes or other e commerce sites as well as in game purchasing .

In some embodiments if the specified communication technology is telephonic voice communication then the real time access control server may run a voice call authorization process. The voice call authorization process may include intercepting from the first communication device a voice call initiation request to a second communication device placing the voice call on hold until an enablement flag is set to true by an administrator and connecting the call between the first communication device and the second communication device. Accordingly for example in this embodiment if a user attempts to call a contact from his or her cellular phone the real time access control server would intercept the call and place the call on hold initiate an authorization alert to an administrator and wait for the administrator to approve the voice call before connecting the call to the contact.

Still referring to verification engine may also verify the identity of a particular target contact using a verification algorithm as a function of both manual verification parameters and or automated verification parameters. Manual verification parameters may include for example verification from other users manual override from an administrator as defined in system list of trusted administrators an interview from a third party verification administrator in person or via video conference. Automated verification parameters may include verification of a contacts first name last name birth date physical address email address phone number social security number and or other identifying information as compared with the same information stored in public record databases or privately stored contacts lists. Verification engine may then calculate a trust score T as a function of the manual verification parameters xi m and the automated verification parameters x a such that T x m x a . If T is greater that a pre defined threshold value then verification engine will confirm the identity of the target contact. If T is less than or equal to a pre defined threshold then verification engine will pass communication controller a non verified contact message and communication controller will disable communications between the user and the contact.

Still referring to if verification engine successfully verifies the target contact s identity but communication with the target contact has not been pre approved then verification engine will place an alert message in queue for the administrator seeking approval of the communication request. Communication manager will then issue the alert to the administrator device prompting the administrator to approve the communication request. Approval of the communication request may be accomplished by logging into the real time access control server via a graphical user interface GUI displaying the administrator s alert queue and approving the communication request as well as selecting communication authorization parameters to define the scope of the authorization. Once the communication request is approved the communication controller will enable communications between user device and contact device consistent with the selected communication authorization parameters. If the administrator does not approve the communication request the communication manager will disable communication between user device and contact device .

In addition to authorizing communication between a user device and a contact device real time access control server may also use the same security mechanism described above to enable disable and or restrict access to specific Internet data sources e.g. restriction of access to Facebook restriction of access or purchasing ability on e commerce site streaming media sites in game purchases within video games etc. . Real time access control server may also provide logging archiving and real time monitoring of a user s Internet activity e.g. tracking pages visited content viewed purchases made on an e commerce or media streaming site etc. .

As illustrated in administrator device user device and contact device may each communicate through the same or different Internet gateway devices or firewalls to access the Internet and the real time access control server .

Referring now to a first user device may be a communication initiation device and a second user device may be a communications target device or contact device. More than two user devices may be present on a network and registered with real time access control appliance . Moreover user devices administrator device and real time access control appliance may all be located on the same local area network behind Internet gateway such that real time access control appliance may also function as an Internet proxy server security appliance device. In some embodiments user devices and administrator device may be located on any network but real time access control appliance is located on a private local area network as opposed to being centrally hosted on a wide area network i.e. the Internet or cloud . In this example the private local area network is managed and hosted at a private residence or within a commercial building for the purpose of managing and authorizing electronic communication for an individual family or company. In addition contact device may be located on a separate local area network behind a separate Internet gateway .

Still referring to a subscription server may be hosted on the Internet and enable licensing for real time access control server as well as for user devices and administrator device . As illustrated one of skill in the art would appreciate that the functionality of the real time access control system illustrated in is substantially similar to the real time access control system illustrated in except that real time access control appliance is located on a private local area network as real time access control server opposed to being centrally hosted.

Some embodiments of the disclosure provide a method for real time communication authorization. Referring to a method for real time communication authorization includes receiving from a first user device a communication request at step and verifying with a verification engine a pre approval status of the communication request at step . The communication request may specify a target contact with whom the user desires to communicate and one or more desired communication protocols such as email software instant messaging or text messaging software social media software e.g. Facebook LinkedIn Instagram YouTube or other social media communication applications video conferencing software e.g. Facetime Skype etc. or voice communication software e.g. current cellular phone communication software Skype etc. .

Still referring to and referring back to the verification engine may verify the identity of a particular target contact using the verification algorithm as a function of both manual verification parameters and or automated verification parameters. Verification engine may then calculate a trust score T x m x a . If T is greater that a pre defined threshold value then verification engine will confirm the identity of the target contact. If T is less than or equal to a pre defined threshold then verification engine may pass communication controller a non verified contact message and communication controller will disable communications between the user and the contact. Alternatively the verification engine may be used to verify identity of system users administrators or third parties based on requests from the real time communication authorization server or from third party applications through the use of a verification API or proxy.

The method for real time communication authorization may further include inserting the communication request in an administrator queue at step if verification engine successfully verifies the target contact s identity but communication with the target contact has not been pre approved. For example the communication request may be stored in an approval queue if the communication request has not been pre authorized. The method may further include issuing an alert to the administrator for approval at step .

Still referring to the method for real time communication authorization may further include receiving one or more administrator authorization parameters at step . Approval of the communication request may be accomplished by logging into the real time access control server via a graphical user interface GUI displaying the administrator s alert queue and approving the communication request as well as selecting communication authorization parameters to define the scope of the authorization. The method may also include enabling communication between the user and the contact as restricted by the one or more authorization parameters at step if the communication request is approved. If the administrator does not approve the communication request communication between the user and the contact will remain disabled.

Referring to a method for pre authorization of a communication request includes receiving a communication request at step and inserting the communication request in an administrative queue at step . The method may also include issuing an alert to the administrator at step and receiving administrative authorization parameters at step wherein one of the administrative authorization parameters pre approves communications between a user and a target contact. The method may further include inserting the authorization parameters in an access control list at step .

Referring to a new contact invitation method may include receiving a communication request that specifies an unregistered target contact at step . For example the method may include verifying that the contact is not a registered system user at step . The method may further include issuing an electronic request inviting the contact to register at step . The issuing of the electronic request may actually be sent to a target contact s parent or legal guardian if the target contact is a minor or to the target contact s employer if the target contact is an employee. The method may also include receiving a registration acceptance and verifying the contacts identity. For example referring back to the method may use a verification engine such as verification engine to perform an identity verification process. The method may also include registering the contact with the system if for example the contact s identity is verified.

Referring to a verify contact identity process may include receiving a contact verification request at step receiving manual trust parameters at step and or receiving automated trust parameters at step . For example manual verification parameters may include verification from other users manual override from an administrator as defined in system list of trusted administrators and or an interview from a third party verification administrator in person or via video conference. Automated verification parameters may include verification of a contacts first name last name birth date phone number email address physical address social security number and or other identifying information as compared with the same information stored in public record databases or private contact databases. The method may also include calculating a trust score T as a function of the manual verification parameters x m and the automated verification parameters x a at step . For example T x m x a . The method may also include comparing the trust score T with a threshold value to confirm identity at step . For example referring back to if T is greater that a pre defined threshold value then verification engine may confirm the identity of the target contact. If T is less than or equal to a pre defined threshold then verification engine may pass communication controller a non verified contact message and communication controller will disable communications between the user and the contact. Alternatively the verification engine may be used to verify identity of system users administrators or third parties based on requests from the real time communication authorization server or from third party applications through the use of a verification API or proxy.

Some embodiments of the disclosure provide a method for Internet data access approval. Referring to a method for Internet data access approval includes receiving a user request to access an Internet data source at step . For example the Internet data source may be any of the Internet data sources illustrated in or . Moreover one of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that the Internet data access request could be to other data sources available for example on a local area network or database as well as any subset of any of the listed Internet data sources such as Internet website pages that meet certain content or structure criteria.

Still referring to the method for Internet data access approval may further include verifying the user permissions based on parameters stored in an access control list at step and if the request is not pre approved inserting the request in an administrator queue at step . One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that the approval process described herein for Internet data access is substantially similar to the processes illustrated by . For example the method for Internet data access approval may further include alerting an administrator of the access request at step and receiving authorization parameters at step . The authorization parameters may include for example an indication as to whether the request is approved e.g. approval true or false a parameter indicating how long the approval will be effective and any other limiting parameters such as whether the user s web browser content will be logged archived and or copied to an administrator monitoring window display. The method may also enable the Internet data access as restricted by the authorization parameters at step .

In some embodiments a family or company may use a shared account to manage the real time access control server. For example each user device and the administrator device may each register with the real time access control server using the shared account wherein the shared account includes an administrative login and one or more user logins. Accordingly the administrator may configure user specific authorization parameters for each user on the system. The administrator may then monitor and or control real time communication approval for each user according to the separately configurable user specific authorization parameters.

As used herein the term system might describe a given unit of functionality that can be performed in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present invention. As used herein a system might be implemented utilizing any form of hardware software or a combination thereof. For example one or more processors controllers ASICs PLAs PALs CPLDs FPGAs logical components software routines or other mechanisms might be implemented to make up a system. In implementation the various systems described herein might be implemented as discrete systems or the functions and features described can be shared in part or in total among one or more systems. In other words as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art after reading this description the various features and functionality described herein may be implemented in any given application and can be implemented in one or more separate or shared systems in various combinations and permutations. Even though various features or elements of functionality may be individually described or claimed as separate systems one of ordinary skill in the art will understand that these features and functionality can be shared among one or more common software and hardware elements and such description shall not require or imply that separate hardware or software components are used to implement such features or functionality.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not of limitation. Likewise the various diagrams may depict an example architectural or other configuration for the invention which is done to aid in understanding the features and functionality that can be included in the invention. The invention is not restricted to the illustrated example architectures or configurations but the desired features can be implemented using a variety of alternative architectures and configurations. Indeed it will be apparent to one of skill in the art how alternative functional logical or physical partitioning and configurations can be implemented to implement the desired features of the present invention. Also a multitude of different constituent system names other than those depicted herein can be applied to the various partitions. Additionally with regard to flow diagrams operational descriptions and method claims the order in which the steps are presented herein shall not mandate that various embodiments be implemented to perform the recited functionality in the same order unless the context dictates otherwise.

Where components or systems of the invention are implemented in whole or in part using software in one embodiment these software elements can be implemented to operate with a computing or processing system capable of carrying out the functionality described with respect thereto. One such example computing system is shown in . Various embodiments are described in terms of this example computing system . After reading this description it will become apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art how to implement the invention using other computing systems or architectures.

Referring now to computing system may represent for example computing or processing capabilities found within desktop laptop and notebook computers hand held computing devices PDA s tablets smart phones cell phones palmtops etc. mainframes supercomputers workstations or servers or any other type of special purpose or general purpose computing devices as may be desirable or appropriate for a given application or environment. Computing system might also represent computing capabilities embedded within or otherwise available to a given device. For example a computing system might be found in other electronic devices such as for example digital cameras navigation systems cellular telephones portable computing devices modems routers WAPs terminals and other electronic devices that might include some form of processing capability.

Computing system might include for example one or more processors controllers control systems or other processing devices such as a processor . Processor might be implemented using a general purpose or special purpose processing engine such as for example a microprocessor controller or other control logic. In the example illustrated in processor is connected to a bus although any communication medium can be used to facilitate interaction with other components of computing system or to communicate externally.

Computing system might also include one or more memory systems simply referred to herein as main memory . For example preferably random access memory RAM or other dynamic memory might be used for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory might also be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Computing system might likewise include a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor .

The computing system might also include one or more various forms of information storage mechanism which might include for example a media drive and a storage unit interface . The media drive might include a drive or other mechanism to support fixed or removable storage media . For example a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive a CD or DVD drive R or RW or other removable or fixed media drive might be provided. Accordingly storage media might include for example a hard disk a floppy disk magnetic tape cartridge optical disk a CD or DVD or other fixed or removable medium that is read by written to or accessed by media drive . As these examples illustrate the storage media can include a computer usable storage medium having stored therein computer software or data.

In alternative embodiments information storage mechanism might include other similar instrumentalities for allowing computer programs or other instructions or data to be loaded into computing system . Such instrumentalities might include for example a fixed or removable storage unit and an interface . Examples of such storage units and interfaces can include a program cartridge and cartridge interface a removable memory for example a flash memory or other removable memory system and memory slot a PCMCIA slot and card and other fixed or removable storage units and interfaces that allow software and data to be transferred from the storage unit to computing system .

Computing system might also include a communications interface . Communications interface might be used to allow software and data to be transferred between computing system and external devices. Examples of communications interface might include a modem or softmodem a network interface such as an Ethernet network interface card WiMedia IEEE 802.XX or other interface a communications port such as for example a USB port IR port RS232 port Bluetooth interface or other port or other communications interface. Software and data transferred via communications interface might typically be carried on signals which can be electronic electromagnetic which includes optical or other signals capable of being exchanged by a given communications interface . These signals might be provided to communications interface via a channel . This channel might carry signals and might be implemented using a wired or wireless communication medium. Some examples of a channel might include a phone line a cellular link an RF link an optical link a network interface a local or wide area network and other wired or wireless communications channels.

In this document the terms computer program medium and computer usable medium are used to generally refer to media such as for example memory storage unit media and signals on channel . These and other various forms of computer program media or computer usable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to a processing device for execution. Such instructions embodied on the medium are generally referred to as computer program code or a computer program product which may be grouped in the form of computer programs or other groupings . When executed such instructions might enable the computing system to perform features or functions of the present invention as discussed herein.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not of limitation. Likewise the various diagrams may depict an example architectural or other configuration for the invention which is done to aid in understanding the features and functionality that can be included in the invention. The invention is not restricted to the illustrated example architectures or configurations but the desired features can be implemented using a variety of alternative architectures and configurations. Indeed it will be apparent to one of skill in the art how alternative functional logical or physical partitioning and configurations can be implemented to implement the desired features of the present invention. Also a multitude of different constituent system names other than those depicted herein can be applied to the various partitions. Additionally with regard to flow diagrams operational descriptions and method claims the order in which the steps are presented herein shall not mandate that various embodiments be implemented to perform the recited functionality in the same order unless the context dictates otherwise.

Although the invention is described above in terms of various exemplary embodiments and implementations it should be understood that the various features aspects and functionality described in one or more of the individual embodiments are not limited in their applicability to the particular embodiment with which they are described but instead can be applied alone or in various combinations to one or more of the other embodiments of the invention whether or not such embodiments are described and whether or not such features are presented as being a part of a described embodiment. Thus the breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments.

Terms and phrases used in this document and variations thereof unless otherwise expressly stated should be construed as open ended as opposed to limiting. As examples of the foregoing the term including should be read as meaning including without limitation or the like the term example is used to provide exemplary instances of the item in discussion not an exhaustive or limiting list thereof the terms a or an should be read as meaning at least one one or more or the like and adjectives such as conventional traditional normal standard known and terms of similar meaning should not be construed as limiting the item described to a given time period or to an item available as of a given time but instead should be read to encompass conventional traditional normal or standard technologies that may be available or known now or at any time in the future. Likewise where this document refers to technologies that would be apparent or known to one of ordinary skill in the art such technologies encompass those apparent or known to the skilled artisan now or at any time in the future.

The presence of broadening words and phrases such as one or more at least but not limited to or other like phrases in some instances shall not be read to mean that the narrower case is intended or required in instances where such broadening phrases may be absent. The use of the term system does not imply that the components or functionality described or claimed as part of the system are all configured in a common package. Indeed any or all of the various components of a system whether control logic or other components can be combined in a single package or separately maintained and can further be distributed in multiple groupings or packages or across multiple locations.

Additionally the various embodiments set forth herein are described in terms of exemplary block diagrams flow charts and other illustrations. As will become apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art after reading this document the illustrated embodiments and their various alternatives can be implemented without confinement to the illustrated examples. For example block diagrams and their accompanying description should not be construed as mandating a particular architecture or configuration.

