---

title: Systems and methods for determining network information on mobile devices
abstract: Methods and systems for adjusting at least one mode of operation of a mobile terminal based on predicted network performance parameters are provided. The methods and systems include determining, by a mobile terminal, the predicted network performance parameters based on at least one of (i) a mobile terminal parameter and (ii) environmental information. The at least one the mobile terminal parameter and the environmental information may be measured by the mobile terminal or obtained by the mobile terminal. The methods and systems include adjusting, by the mobile terminal, the at least one mode of operation based on the predicted network performance parameters.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09078123&OS=09078123&RS=09078123
owner: Alcatel Lucent
number: 09078123
owner_city: Boulogne-Billancourt
owner_country: FR
publication_date: 20140929
---
Wireless cellular communications networks include several cells where each cell includes a base station that provides mobile communications and network services to mobile devices. In the wireless cellular networks signals from one or more mobile devices in a cell coverage area of a base station are received by the base station which then connects a call to a land line telephone network and or connects the mobile device to a network such as the internet. In typical wireless cellular systems when a base station connects a mobile device to the internet a mobile application running on the mobile device is used to connect the mobile application with an internet based service provider. Such service providers may provide such as email stock market information weather information media streaming video games GPS and or location based services banking and the like.

The explosion in number and variety of mobile applications and the growing complexity and proliferation of mobile devices has created an increase of bandwidth consumption. The increase in bandwidth consumption requires more sophisticated approaches to the coordination between mobile devices and the wireless network infrastructure in order to provide more efficient allocation of network resources. However different mobile applications may have different network resource requirements to ensure a higher Quality of Experience QoE and or Quality of Service QoS for the services the mobile application utilizes. Therefore the methods that a mobile device and or a mobile application may use for obtaining services and or requesting network resources may be dependent on a type of mobile application being executed by the mobile terminal.

Current methods for allocating network resources to mobile devices are network centric . For example in most wireless networks a base station may include one or more scheduling algorithms in order to allocate network resources to mobile devices within the base station s cell coverage area. Additionally the base station may obtain information from the mobile devices within the base station s cell coverage area to better determine how to efficiently allocate the base station s network resources. However the conventional methods for allocating resources typically do not account for mobile device and or mobile application specific parameters for obtaining desired services and or requesting desired network resources. In order for a network centric approach to take into account mobile device and or mobile application specific parameters for obtaining desired services and or requesting desired network resources the network infrastructure may have to comply with a single and or universal standard for allocating network resources which may be inconvenient for each wireless network vendor to implement.

At least one example embodiment relates to a method for adjusting at least one mode of operation of a mobile terminal based on predicted network performance parameters.

According to an example embodiment a method for adjusting at least one mode of operation of a mobile terminal based on predicted network performance parameters includes determining by the mobile terminal the predicted network performance parameters based on at least one of i a mobile terminal parameter and ii environmental information the at least one of the mobile terminal parameter and the environmental information being measured by the mobile terminal or obtained by the mobile terminal and adjusting by the mobile terminal the at least one mode of operation based on the predicted network performance parameters.

At least one example embodiment provides that the determining includes determining current network conditions based on the environmental information.

At least one example embodiment provides that the determining includes determining current network conditions based on environmental information of another device where the other device is at least one of proximate to the mobile terminal and attached to the mobile terminal. The environmental information of the other mobile terminal is one of measured by the mobile terminal and obtained by the mobile terminal.

At least one example embodiment provides that the determining includes determining desired application parameters of an application that is executed by the mobile terminal where the desired application parameters being defined by the application and monitoring current application parameters of the application. At least one example embodiment provides that the adjusting includes adjusting the at least one mode of operation of the mobile terminal according to a difference between the desired application parameters and the current application parameters.

At least one example embodiment provides that the determining the desired application parameters includes determining historical parameters associated with the application.

At least one example embodiment provides that the determining includes determining that an event has occurred on the mobile terminal and determining historical parameters associated with the event. At least one example embodiment provides that the adjusting includes adjusting the at least one mode of operation of the mobile terminal based on the historical parameters associated with the event.

At least one example embodiment provides that the determining includes determining a current position of the mobile terminal and determining historical parameters associated with the current position. At least one example embodiment provides that the adjusting includes adjusting the at least one mode of operation of the mobile terminal based on the historical parameters associated with the current position.

At least one example embodiment provides that the determining includes determining at least one of a movement velocity of the mobile terminal a movement acceleration of the mobile terminal and an orientation of the mobile terminal. The determining includes determining at least one of a predicted position a predicted orientation a predicted movement velocity and a predicted acceleration based on at least one of i the current position and ii the at least one of the movement velocity the movement acceleration and the orientation. The determining includes determining at least one of i historical parameters associated with the predicted position and ii historical parameters associated with the at least one of the predicted movement velocity the predicted movement acceleration and the predicted orientation. At least one example embodiment provides that the adjusting includes adjusting the at least one mode of operation of the mobile terminal based on at least one of i the current position ii historical parameters associated with the predicted position and iii the historical parameters associated with the at least one of the predicted movement velocity the predicted movement acceleration and the predicted orientation.

At least one example embodiment provides that the determining includes measuring environmental factors surrounding the mobile terminal and determining current network performance parameters based on the measured environmental factors.

At least one example embodiment provides that the determining further includes determining a rolling average for the current network performance parameters the rolling average indicating an average value of the current network performance parameters that are measured during a desired time interval.

At least one example embodiment relates to a mobile terminal including a processor where the processor is configured to adjust at least one mode of operation of a mobile terminal based on predicted network performance parameters.

According to an example embodiment a mobile terminal includes a processor. The processor is configured to determine predicted network performance parameters based on at least one of i a mobile terminal parameter and ii environmental information the at least one of the mobile terminal parameter and the environmental information being measured by the mobile terminal or obtained by the mobile terminal and adjust at least one mode of operation based on the predicted network performance parameters.

At least one example embodiment provides that in the determining the processor is further configured to determine current network conditions based on the environmental information.

At least one example embodiment provides that in the determining the processor is further configured to determine current network conditions based on environmental information of another device where the other device is at least one of proximate to the mobile terminal and attached to the mobile terminal the environmental information of the other mobile terminal being one of measured by the mobile terminal and obtained by the mobile terminal.

At least one example embodiment provides that in the determining the processor is further configured to determine desired application parameters of an application that is executed by the mobile terminal the desired application parameters being defined by the application and monitor current application parameters of the application. At least one example embodiment provides that in the adjusting the processor is further configured to adjust the at least one mode of operation of the mobile terminal according to a difference between the desired application parameters and the current application parameters.

At least one example embodiment provides that in the determining the desired application parameters the processor is further configured to determine historical parameters associated with the application.

At least one example embodiment provides that in the determining the processor is further configured to determine that an event has occurred on the mobile terminal and determine historical parameters associated with the event. At least one example embodiment provides that in the adjusting the processor is further configured to adjust the at least one mode of operation of the mobile terminal based on the historical parameters associated with the event.

At least one example embodiment provides that in the determining the processor is further configured to determine a current position of the mobile terminal and determine historical parameters associated with the current position. At least one example embodiment provides that in the adjusting the processor is further configured to adjust the at least one mode of operation of the mobile terminal based on the current position.

At least one example embodiment provides that in the determining the processor is further configured to determine at least one of a movement velocity of the mobile terminal a movement acceleration of the mobile terminal and an orientation of the mobile terminal. The processor is configured to determine at least one of a predicted position a predicted orientation a predicted movement velocity and a predicted acceleration based on i the current position and ii the at least one of the movement velocity the movement acceleration and the orientation. The processor is configured to determine at least one of i historical parameters associated with the predicted position and ii historical parameters associated with the at least one of the predicted movement velocity the predicted movement acceleration and the predicted orientation. At least one example embodiment provides that in the adjusting the processor is further configured to adjust the at least one mode of operation of the mobile terminal based on at least one of i the current position ii historical parameters associated with the predicted position and iii the historical parameters associated with the at least one of the predicted movement velocity the predicted movement acceleration and the predicted orientation.

At least one example embodiment provides that in the determining the processor is further configured to measure environmental factors surrounding the mobile terminal determine current network performance parameters based on the measured environmental factors and determine a rolling average for the current network performance parameters where the rolling average indicates an average value of the current network performance parameters that are measured during a desired time interval.

At least one example embodiment relates to a computer readable medium comprising program code which when executed by a processor configures the processor to adjust at least one mode of operation of a mobile terminal based on predicted network performance parameters.

According to an example embodiment a computer readable medium comprising program code is provided. When the program code is executed by a processor the program code configures the processor to i adjust at least one mode of operation of the mobile terminal based on predicted network performance parameters and ii determine the predicted network performance parameters without requesting network performance information from a network element.

Various example embodiments will now be described more fully with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some example embodiments of the invention are shown.

Detailed illustrative embodiments are disclosed herein. However specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are merely representative for purposes of describing example embodiments of the present invention. This invention may however may be embodied in many alternate forms and should not be construed as limited to only the embodiments set forth herein.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first element could be termed a second element and similarly a second element could be termed a first element without departing from the scope of example embodiments of the present invention. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present. Other words used to describe the relationship between elements should be interpreted in a like fashion e.g. between versus directly between adjacent versus directly adjacent etc. .

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of example embodiments of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions acts noted may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two figures shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

Specific details are provided in the following description to provide a thorough understanding of example embodiments. However it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that example embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example systems may be shown in block diagrams in order not to obscure the example embodiments in unnecessary detail. In other instances well known processes structures and techniques may be shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring example embodiments.

Also it is noted that example embodiments may be described as a process depicted as a flowchart a flow diagram a data flow diagram a structure diagram or a block diagram. Although a flowchart may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations may be performed in parallel concurrently or simultaneously. In addition the order of the operations may be re arranged. A process may be terminated when its operations are completed but may also have additional steps not included in the figure. A process may correspond to a method a function a procedure a subroutine a subprogram etc. When a process corresponds to a function its termination may correspond to a return of the function to the calling function or the main function.

Moreover as disclosed herein the term memory may represent one or more devices for storing data including random access memory RAM magnetic RAM core memory and or other machine readable mediums for storing information. The term storage medium may represent one or more devices for storing data including read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic RAM core memory magnetic disk storage mediums optical storage mediums flash memory devices and or other machine readable mediums for storing information. The term computer readable medium may include but is not limited to portable or fixed storage devices optical storage devices wireless channels and various other mediums capable of storing containing or carrying instruction s and or data.

Furthermore example embodiments may be implemented by hardware software firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages or any combination thereof. When implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a machine or computer readable medium such as a storage medium. A processor s may perform the necessary tasks.

A code segment may represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a class or any combination of instructions data structures or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. may be passed forwarded or transmitted via any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

As used herein the term mobile terminal may be considered synonymous to and may hereafter be occasionally referred to as a client mobile mobile unit mobile station mobile user user equipment UE user terminal subscriber user remote station access agent user agent receiver etc. and may describe a remote user of network resources in a communications network. Furthermore the term mobile terminal may include any type of wireless device such as consumer electronics devices smart phones tablet personal computers wearable computing devices personal digital assistants PDAs desktop computers and laptop computers and or any other like physical computing device that is able to connect to a wireless communications network.

As used herein the term network element may be considered synonymous to and or referred to as a networked computer networking hardware network equipment router switch hub bridge gateway or other like device. The term network element may describe a physical computing device of a wired or wireless communication network and configured to host a virtual machine. Furthermore the term network element may describe equipment that provides radio baseband functions for data and or voice connectivity between a network and one or more users. The term network element may be considered synonymous to and or referred to as a base station . As used herein the term base station may be considered synonymous to and or referred to as an enhanced Node B eNB base transceiver station BTS NodeB access point AP etc. and may describe equipment that provides the radio baseband functions for data and or voice connectivity between a network and one or more users.

Example embodiments may be utilized in conjunction with RANs such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Global System for Mobile communications GSM Advance Mobile Phone Service AMPS system the Narrowband AMPS system NAMPS the Total Access Communications System TACS the Personal Digital Cellular PDC system the United States Digital Cellular USDC system the code division multiple access CDMA system described in EIA TIA IS 95 a High Rate Packet Data HRPD system Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX ultra mobile broadband UMB 3Generation Partnership Project LTE 3GPP LTE and 4Generation LTE.

Example embodiments are discussed herein as being implemented in a suitable computing environment. Although not required example embodiments will be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules or functional processes being executed by one or more special purpose computer processors or general purpose processors configured to operate as a special purpose processor. Generally program modules or functional processes include program code routines programs objects components data structures etc. that performs particular tasks or implement particular data types. The program modules and functional processes discussed herein may be implemented using existing hardware in existing communication networks. For example program modules and functional processes discussed herein may be implemented using existing hardware at existing network elements or mobile terminals. Such existing hardware may include one or more digital signal processors DSPs application specific integrated circuits field programmable gate arrays FPGAs computers or the like.

Mobile terminal is a physical hardware device that is capable of running one or more applications. Mobile terminal may include a transmitter receiver or alternatively a transceiver memory one or more processors and or other like components. Mobile terminal may be configured to send receive data to from base station . Mobile terminal may be designed to sequentially and automatically carry out a sequence of arithmetic or logical operations equipped to record store digital data on a machine readable medium and transmit and receive digital data via base station . Mobile terminal may include wireless phones or smartphones laptop personal computers PCs tablet PCs wearable computing devices and or any other physical or logical device capable of recording storing and or transferring digital data via base station and or any other like network element. Mobile terminal may include a wireless transceiver configured to operate in accordance with one or more wireless communications protocols and or one or more cellular phone communications protocols. Mobile terminal may be configured to operate in accordance with the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE wideband code division multiple access WCDMA code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA Bluetooth Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi such as the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11a IEEE 802.11b IEEE 802.11g IEEE 802.11 ac and or IEEE 802.11n voice over Internet Protocol VoIP Wi MAX Long Term Evolution LTE an email protocol such as Internet Message Access Protocol IMAP and or Post Office Protocol POP an instance messaging such as eXtensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE Instant Messaging and Presence Service IMPS and Short Message Service SMS or any other wireless communication protocols including RF based optical visible invisible and so forth.

Mobile terminal may be equipped with location or alternatively geolocation positioning and or navigation circuitry such as a Global Positioning System GPS receiver as well as software to convert received GPS signals into a location and or position within some margin of error . In other embodiments alternate positioning systems may be employed such as wireless network signal strength based indoor positioning systems hybrid systems combining global and local positioning systems and or other like positioning and or location detection systems. However in various embodiments geolocation and or positioning information may come from other sources including an IP address Wi Fi and or Bluetooth MAC address radio frequency identification RFID Wi Fi connection location GSM CDMA cell IDs and the like.

Mobile terminal may include an accelerometer gyroscope gravimeter and or another like device that is configured to measure and or detect a motion an acceleration and or an orientation of the mobile terminal . In such embodiments the mobile terminal may be configured to determine a magnitude and direction of an acceleration and or motion of the mobile terminal and convert the acceleration and or motion of the mobile terminal into position and or orientation information.

Mobile terminal may be configured to run execute or otherwise operate one or more applications. The applications may include native applications web applications and hybrid applications. The native applications may be used for operating the mobile terminal such as using a camera or other like image sensor of the mobile terminal GPS functionality of the mobile terminal an accelerometer of the mobile terminal cellular phone functionality of the mobile terminal and other like functions of the mobile terminal . Native applications may be platform or operating system OS specific. Native applications may be developed for a specific platform using platform specific development tools programming languages and the like. Such platform specific development tools and or programming languages may be provided by a platform vendor. Native applications may be pre installed on mobile terminal during manufacturing or provided to the mobile terminal by an application server e.g. application server via a network e.g. network .

Web applications are applications that load into a web browser of the mobile terminal . The web applications may be websites that are designed or customized to run on a mobile device by taking into account various mobile device parameters such as resource availability display size touchscreen input and the like. In this way web applications may provide an experience that is similar to a native application within a web browser. Web applications may be any server side application that is developed with any server side development tools and or programming languages such as PHP Node.js ASP.NET and or any other like technology that renders HTML.

Hybrid applications may be a hybrid between native applications and web applications. Hybrid applications may be a standalone skeletons or other like application containers that may load a website within the application container. Hybrid applications may be written using website development tools and or programming languages such as HTML5 CSS JavaScript and the like. Hybrid applications use browser engine of the mobile terminal without using a web browser of the mobile terminal to render a website s services locally. Hybrid applications may also access mobile device capabilities that are not accessible in web applications such as the accelerometer camera local storage and the like.

In various embodiments mobile terminal may be configured to measure and or record network performance parameters such as network loading information QoS QoE parameters and or other like characteristics. Network loading information may include a received signal strength indicator RSSI received channel power indicator RCPI a path loss measurement packet delay time and or other like information that may indicate a level or amount of traffic in a communications network. QoS QoE parameters may include a call drop rate a signal to noise ratio a measure of throughput a delay a jitter latency a handover success rate a service response time a round trip time RTT a number of interrupts an out of order delivery of data packets and or other like network performance parameters.

In various embodiments mobile terminal may be configured to measure and record application parameters. Application parameters may include a data buffer fill rate execution latency and or other like measurements of time required to complete the execution of a task response times to application requests and or tasks workload performance throughput memory and or other resource utilization levels application freeze rates error rates network connection rates and or other like application parameters.

In various embodiments mobile terminal may be configured to measure and record mobile terminal parameters such as processor speed and or processor clock rate temperature of the mobile terminal a temperature of one or more chips within mobile terminal battery usage battery temperature available and or used memory space memory fragmentation and or any other like mobile terminal parameters. In various embodiments mobile terminal may be configured to measure and record performance parameters associated with one or more devices that are proximate or attached to mobile terminal such as other computing devices other mobile terminals autonomous sensors Machine Type Communications MTC devices machine to machine M2M devices and the like.

In various embodiments mobile terminal may be configured to measure and record environmental information such as a surrounding temperature surrounding humidity surrounding weather phenomena surrounding electromagnetic fields and or any other like biotic or abiotic factors surrounding the mobile terminal . The environmental information may be measured obtained or otherwise determined using an image sensor of the mobile terminal a microphone of the mobile terminal a temperature sensor of the mobile terminal a proximity sensor of the mobile terminal and or any other like device. Furthermore the mobile terminal may obtain and or determine environmental information from a weather forecasting service via network connection. In various embodiments mobile terminal may be configured to measure and record environmental information that is measured by or otherwise associated with one or more devices that are proximate to mobile terminal such as other computing devices other mobile terminals autonomous sensors Machine Type Communications MTC devices machine to machine M2M devices and the like.

Base station may be configured to provide wireless communication services to mobile terminals within a geographic area or cell coverage area associated with the base station . The base station may provide wireless communication services to mobile terminal via a link for user terminal . Links between base station and the mobile terminal may include one or more downlink or forward channels for transmitting information from base station to mobile terminal and one or more uplink or reverse channels for transmitting information from mobile terminal to the base station . It should be noted that base station may provide the same or similar wireless communications services to multiple mobile terminals and or other devices such as autonomous sensors MTC devices M2M devices and the like.

In various embodiments base station may include a processor and transmitter receiver connected to one or more antennas and an electronic switching function. The one or more transmitters receivers may be configured to transmit receive data signals to from one or more mobile terminals within its cell coverage area via one or more links. In various embodiments base station may be configured to operate a channel access method such as code division multiple access CDMA orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA time division multiple access TDMA packet mode multiple access space division multiple access SDMA or other like channel access methods or combination thereof. In various embodiments base station may employ the E UTRA protocols i.e. OFDMA for downlink communications and SC FDMA for uplink communications using the LTE interface to connected with or otherwise communicate with mobile terminal .

In various embodiments base station may be configured to employ one or more wireless communications standards such as CDMA GSM LTE WiMAX or other like wireless communications standard. Base station may also be configured to connect to a service provider s network via hard link such as a packet switched network a mobile switching center or via other like connection means. The electronic switching function may be a Mobile Switching Center MSC when base station employs a GSM AMPTS NMT and CDMA system. Alternatively a Media Gateway MGW Gateway MSC Server GMSC may be used if base station employs a 3G 4G mobile system. In various embodiments the aforementioned functions may be provided by separate components or devices.

In various embodiments where base station uses the LTE wireless communication protocol base station may comprise components of the System Architecture Evolution SAE with an Evolved Packet Core EPC as described by the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . In such embodiments base station may include components such as a Mobility Management Entity MME Serving Gateway SGW PDN Gateway PGW Home Subscriber Server HSS Access Network Discovery and Selection Function ANDSF Evolved Packet Data Gateway ePDG and or other like components as are known. In various embodiments the aforementioned components may be employed by separate devices.

In various embodiments base station may be configured to operate a collision detection method such as a carrier sense multiple access CSMA protocol which is a probabilistic Media Access Control MAC protocol in which a device verifies the absence of other traffic before transmitting on a shared transmission medium. The CSMA protocol may employ a collision avoidance CA protocol in which a device only transmits when a channel is sensed to be idle. Alternatively the CSMA protocol may employ a collision detection CD protocol in which a device terminates a transmission as soon as a collision is detected. However embodiments are not limited to the collision detection methods described above and may encompass any type of collision detection method. Additionally the CSMA protocol may be enhanced with a Request to Send Clear to Send RTS CTS protocol in which a device wishing to send data initiates the process by sending a request to send frame RTS and the destination device replies with a clear to send frame CTS .

Network may be any network that allows computers to exchange data. Network may include one or more network elements not shown capable of physically or logically connecting computers. In various embodiments network may be the Internet. In various embodiments network may be may be a Wide Area Network WAN or other like network that covers a broad area such as a personal area network PAN local area network LAN campus area network CAN metropolitan area network MAN a virtual local area network VLAN or any other like network capable of physically or logically connecting computers. Additionally in various embodiments network may be a private and or secure network which is used by a single organization e.g. a business a school a government agency and the like .

Application server is a network element that may include one or more systems and or applications for providing one or more services. Application server may include a processor memory or computer readable storage medium and a network interface. In some embodiments application server may include a transmitter receiver connected to one or more antennas. The application server may be any network element capable of receiving and responding to requests from one or more client devices e.g. mobile terminal across a computer network e.g. network to provide one or more services. Accordingly application server may be configured to communicate with the mobile terminal via a wireless protocol. Additionally application server may be a single physical hardware device or application server may be physically or logically connected with other network devices such that the application server may reside on one or more physical hardware devices.

Application server may employ one or more connection oriented protocols such as Session Initiation Protocol SIP HTTP and TCP IP and includes network devices that use connectionless protocols such as User Datagram Protocol UDP and Internet Packet Exchange IPX . Application server may be configured to establish manage and terminate communications sessions for example between the application server and mobile terminal . Application server may also be configured to establish manage and terminate communications sessions with two or more client devices.

According to various embodiments application server may be connected to or otherwise associated with one or more databases not shown .

As shown in only one mobile terminal a single base station and a single application server are present. According to various embodiments multiple mobile devices multiple servers and or any number of databases not shown may be present. Additionally in some embodiments application server and or one or more databases may be virtual machines and or they may be provided as part of a cloud computing service. In various embodiments application server and one or more databases may reside on one physical hardware device and or may be otherwise fully integrated with one another.

Memory is a hardware device configured to store an operating system and program code for one or more software components such as operation adjustment routine and or one or more mobile applications. Memory may be a computer readable storage medium that generally includes a random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a flash memory device a solid state disk SSD a secure digital SD card and or other like storage media capable of storing and recording data. The program code and or software components may also be loaded from a separate computer readable storage medium into memory using a drive mechanism not shown . Such separate computer readable storage medium may include a memory card memory stick removable flash drive sim card and or other like computer readable storage medium not shown . In some embodiments software components may be loaded into memory via network interface rather than via a computer readable storage medium.

During operation memory includes operating system . Operating system may include one or more drivers such as a display driver camera driver audio drivers and or any other like components that provide an interface to hardware devices thereby enabling operating system and application to access hardware functions without needing to know the details of the hardware itself. Operating system may also include one or more libraries. The libraries may be a collection of resources used by applications to implement system calls. The libraries may include program code or software modules that may be used by multiple applications including application and network manager . During operation operating system includes network performance library and parametric drivers .

The parametric drivers may be program code and or software components that operate and or control one or more devices of mobile terminal to measure network performance parameters application parameters mobile terminal parameters environmental information and or other like information and or parameters. The parametric drivers may define how to interface directly with one or more hardware components of mobile terminal by indicating how to read write data to from one or more hardware components of mobile terminal or how to operate one or more hardware components of mobile terminal .

The network performance library provides program code and or software components for one or more applications e.g. application and or network manager to obtain and use the network performance parameters application parameters and or mobile terminal parameters measured using the parametric drivers . In various embodiments the network performance library includes various software modules and or software components that may be used to compute derive or otherwise determine predicted network performance parameters using the network performance parameters application parameters and or mobile terminal parameters measured using the parametric drivers . In various embodiments network performance library may be implemented as an application programming interface API . The API may allow mobile application developers to use desired ones of the various software modules and or software components of the network performance library such that their mobile applications may interact with the parametric drivers .

Processor may be configured to carry out instructions of a computer program by performing the basic arithmetical logical and input output operations of the system. The processor may include a single core processor a dual core processor a triple core processor a quad core processor etc. The processor may perform a variety of functions for the mobile terminal and may process data by executing program code one or more software modules firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages and or any other like set of instructions stored in the memory . The program code may be provided to processor by memory via bus one or more drive mechanisms not shown and or via network interface . In order to perform the variety of functions and data processing operations the program code and or software components are loaded into the processor . Once the program code is loaded into the processor the processor may be programmed to perform the various operations and functions delineated by the program code thereby transforming the processor into a special purpose processor.

For example the application and or the network manager may be loaded into the processor . Once the application and or the network manager are loaded into the processor the processor may be configured to perform mode of operation adjustments and or other like mobile terminal adjustments according to various example embodiments. In various embodiments the mode of operation adjustments may be based on one or more application parameters of the application which is loaded into the processor .

Network manager is an application that utilizes the network performance library in order to simulate or otherwise generate a virtual local network . The virtual local network may include predicted network performance parameters based on the network performance parameters application parameters mobile terminal parameters and or environmental information measured using the parametric drivers . The application may use the virtual local network as a basis for adjusting a mode of operation of the mobile terminal . By using the predicted network performance parameters from the virtual local network the mobile terminal may adjust a mode of operation without requesting current network performance parameters current network condition information and the like as measured by a network entity e.g. base station .

The application may be a native application a web application or a hybrid application. In various embodiments a developer associated with the application may alter or otherwise modify the application to utilize the virtual local network to adjust application modes of operation and or mobile terminal modes of operation in order to increase QoS QoE of the application and or enable a more efficient use of computing and or network resources.

Bus enables the communication and data transfer between the components of mobile terminal . Bus may comprise a high speed serial bus parallel bus internal universal serial bus USB Front Side Bus FSB and or other suitable communication technology for transferring data between components within mobile terminal and or between mobile terminal and other like devices.

Network interface is a computer hardware component that connects mobile terminal to a computer network e.g. network . Network interface may connect mobile terminal to a computer network via a wired or wireless connection. Network interface may operate in conjunction with a wireless transmitter receiver and or transceiver not shown that is configured to operate in accordance with one or more wireless standards. The network interface may also include one or more virtual network interfaces configured to operate with application and or other like mobile applications.

As discussed above mobile terminal may also include a transmitter and receiver or a transceiver not shown . The transmitter may be any type of hardware device that generates or otherwise produces radio waves in order to communicate with one or more other devices. The transmitter may be coupled with an antenna not shown in order to transmit data to one or more other devices. The transmitter may be configured to receive digital data from one or more components of mobile terminal via bus and convert the received digital data into an analog signal for transmission over an air interface. The receiver may be any type of hardware device that can receive and convert a signal from a modulated radio wave into usable information such as digital data. The receiver may be coupled with the antenna not shown in order to capture radio waves. The receiver may be configured to send digital data converted from a captured radio wave to one or more other components of mobile terminal via bus . In embodiments where a transceiver not shown is included with mobile terminal the transceiver may be a single component configured to provide the functionality of a transmitter and a receiver as discussed above.

As shown in operation S mobile terminal determines predicted network performance parameters. Mobile terminal may be configured to measure network performance parameters application parameters mobile terminal parameters and or environmental information by way of the parametric drivers . The mobile terminal may then use the measured network performance parameters application parameters and or mobile terminal parameters to compute derive or otherwise determine predicted network performance parameters. In various embodiments the predicted network performance parameters may be used to generate a virtual local network. By using the predicted network performance parameters from the virtual local network the mobile terminal may determine the predicted network performance parameters without requesting current network performance parameters current network condition information and the like as measured by a network entity e.g. base station .

Referring to operation S according to example embodiments determining the predicted network performance parameters may include determining current network conditions. The current network conditions may be based on the measured network performance parameters application parameters mobile terminal parameters and or environmental information measured by the mobile terminal . The mobile terminal may also obtain the measured network performance parameters application parameters mobile terminal parameters and or environmental information from one or more other devices that are proximate to the mobile terminal . The one or more other devices may include other mobile terminals M2M devices automated sensors and the like.

In various embodiments the measured network performance parameters may include network loading information QoS QoE parameters and or other like characteristics. Furthermore in various embodiments the environmental information may be based on environmental factors surrounding the mobile terminal . Such environmental factors may include a surrounding temperature surrounding humidity surrounding weather phenomena surrounding electromagnetic fields and or any other like biotic or abiotic factors surrounding the mobile terminal .

Referring back to operation S once the current network conditions are determined the mobile terminal may determine the predicted network performance parameters. In various embodiments the predicted network performance parameters may be calculated or otherwise determined based on a rolling average of the measured current network performance parameters the application parameters the mobile terminal parameters and or the environmental information. The rolling average may indicate an average value of the measured current network performance parameters the application parameters the mobile terminal parameters and or the environmental information that are measured during a desired time interval and or time period.

In various embodiments the predicted network performance parameters may be based on historical parameters associated with the measured current network performance parameters the application parameters the mobile terminal parameters and or the environmental information. Historical parameters may include a mode of operation and or a functionality that the mobile terminal and or the application experienced during same or similar network performance parameters application parameters mobile terminal parameters and or environmental factors. In various embodiments the mobile terminal may record and store a current mode of operation in association with the measured current network performance parameters the application parameters the mobile terminal parameters and or the environmental information to be used as historical parameters for future predictions of network performance parameters.

It should be noted that historical parameters may also be associated with predicted network performance parameters predicted application parameters predicted mobile terminal parameters and or predicted environmental information. Therefore in various embodiments the historical parameters associated with the predicted network performance parameters the predicted application parameters the predicted mobile terminal parameters and or the predicted environmental information may be used to adjust a mode of operation of the mobile terminal .

Referring back to operation S according to example embodiments determining the predicted network performance parameters may include determining desired application parameters of the application . A desired application parameter may be any feature characteristic or other like measurable factor that the application uses to ensure a minimum level of functionality and or a desired QoS QoE. In various embodiments the application may define the desired application parameters. In some embodiments the mobile terminal may determine the desired application parameters based on an application type of the application .

In various embodiments the mobile terminal may monitor current application parameters of the application and compare the desired application parameters with the current application parameters. A current application parameter may be any feature characteristic or other like measurable factor that the application is experiences during an execution of the application . In various embodiments the predicted network performance parameters may be based on the difference between the desired application parameters with the current application parameters.

Referring back to operation S according to example embodiments determining the predicted network performance parameters may be based on an event that occurs on the mobile terminal . In such embodiments the mobile terminal may establish a trigger mechanism. A trigger mechanism may be any type of program code and or process that automatically executes in response to an event. In various embodiments the trigger mechanism may be based on the application . Typically triggers may include events such as sensor inputs outputs timer values user actions messages from other applications and or devices i.e. paging and or the like. Thus in various embodiments mobile terminal may establish a trigger mechanism that corresponds to one or more trigger events. When the mobile terminal detects that a trigger event has occurred a trigger mechanism may be triggered and the mobile terminal will predict future network performance parameters accordingly. In various embodiments the predicted network performance parameters may be based on historical parameters associated with one or more events. The historical parameters associated with the one or more events may include a mode of operation and or a functionality that the mobile terminal and or the application experienced during and or after a same or similar event s . In various embodiments the mobile terminal may record and store a current mode of operation in association with one or more events to be used as historical parameters for future predictions of network performance parameters.

Referring back to operation S according to example embodiments determining the predicted network performance parameters may be based on detecting a position an orientation a movement direct movement velocity and or a movement acceleration of the mobile terminal using GPS circuitry accelerometer gyroscope gravimeter and or another like devices of the mobile terminal . In various embodiments the mobile terminal may predict future network performance parameters based on a current position and or orientation of the mobile terminal . Furthermore the mobile terminal using the aforementioned devices may determine a current movement direction velocity and or acceleration which may also be used to predict future network performance parameters. In various embodiments the predicted network performance parameters may be based on historical parameters associated with the current position and or orientation movement direction velocity and or acceleration. The historical parameters associated with the current position and or orientation movement direction velocity and or acceleration may include a mode of operation and or a functionality that the mobile terminal and or the application experienced in a position and or orientation movement direction velocity and or acceleration that is the same or similar to the current position and or orientation movement direction velocity and or acceleration. In various embodiments the mobile terminal may record and store a current mode of operation in association with current position and or orientation movement direction velocity and or acceleration to be used as historical parameters for future predictions of network performance parameters.

As shown in operation S mobile terminal determines whether the predicted network performance parameters are within a desired threshold range. If the mobile terminal determines that the predicted network performance parameters are within the desired threshold range the mobile terminal proceeds to operation S to maintain a mode of operation of the mobile terminal . If the mobile terminal determines that the predicted network performance parameters are not within the desired threshold range the mobile terminal proceeds to operation S to adjust the mode of operation of the mobile terminal .

A mode of operation may include one or more functions or settings of the mobile terminal . For example a mode of operation may include settings and functions such as audio settings and functions display settings and functions vibration settings and functions input output settings and functions application settings and functions security settings and functions network access settings and functions data storage settings and functions and or any other like settings and or functions associated with mobile terminal . Adjusting the mode of operation may include configuring changing altering varying enabling disabling or otherwise modifying one or more of the aforementioned settings and functions of mobile terminal . Furthermore a mode of operation may include modifying a combination of the aforementioned functions and settings which according to various embodiments may be performed in a desired order.

The desired threshold range may be any reference value or set of reference values that may be used to determine if a mode of operation should be adjusted. In various embodiments the desired threshold range may be a minimum or maximum value that once exceeded or passed triggers the mobile terminal to adjust the mode of operation. Therefore the mobile terminal may be configured to determine if the predicted network performance parameters are equal to a desired threshold or if the predicted network performance parameters within the desired threshold range in order to maintain or not adjust a mode of operation. Additionally the mobile terminal may be configured to determine if the predicted network performance parameters are not equal to a desired threshold or if the predicted network performance parameters outside of the desired threshold range in order to adjust a mode of operation. The desired threshold or desired threshold range may be based on one or more design choices and or determined based on empirical studies. In various embodiments the desired threshold or desired threshold range may be based on historical parameters associated with current network conditions current application parameters mobile terminal parameters environmental information and or predicted network performance parameters.

As shown in operation S after adjusting the mode of operation or after maintaining the mode of operation the mobile terminal sends a request to the application server based on the adjusted or maintained mode of operation. After the request has been sent to the application server mobile terminal proceeds back to operation S to determine predicted network performance parameters.

It should be noted that in various embodiments operation S may be an optional included in the operation adjustment routine . For example depending on the mode of operation and or the application the mobile terminal may not have to or be able to send a request to the application server . In such embodiments the mobile terminal may proceed back to operation S to determine predicted network performance parameters after i the mode of operation is adjusted at operation S or ii the mode of operation is maintained at operation S.

According to a first non limiting example embodiment the application is a video streaming application and operation adjustment routine may operate as follows.

As shown at operation S the mobile terminal determines predicted network performance parameters. In various embodiments the mobile terminal may determine current network conditions current application parameters mobile terminal parameters and or environmental information. According to the first non limiting example embodiment the current application parameters may include a buffer capacity of a video buffer a space availability of the video buffer and or a buffer fill rate of the video buffer. The video buffer may be used for playback of the streaming video data to provide a desired QoE QoS when an encoding rate decreases. Additionally the current network conditions may be based on a rolling average of one or more current network performance parameters. Furthermore according to the first non limiting example embodiment the mobile terminal may determine that a desired application parameter of the video streaming application includes a desired encoding rate or bitrate.

As shown in operation S mobile terminal determines whether the predicted network performance parameters are within a desired threshold range. According to the first non limiting example embodiment the mobile terminal may determine that based on a rolling average of one or more current network performance parameters and or one or more environmental factors the current network conditions are decreasing by a rate of change. The decreasing rate of change may indicate that the future network conditions will likely be unfavorable for the video streaming application. The mobile terminal may then use the decreasing rate of change to calculate predicted network performance parameters such as a predicted signal strength a predicted available bandwidth and the like.

If at operation S the mobile terminal determines that the predicted network performance parameters are not within a desired threshold range the mobile terminal proceeds to operation S to adjust the mode of operation of the mobile terminal . The desired threshold range may be a range of desired encoding rates that are determined based on a desired encoding rate defined by the video streaming application. If the predicted network performance parameters indicate that the encoding rate will likely fall below the desired encoding rate and or that the encoding rate will likely fall outside of the desired range of encoding rates the mobile terminal may increase the encoding rate such that the video buffer will be filled at or near a maximum capacity prior to the mobile terminal experiencing the degraded network conditions. Additionally in order to fill the video buffer the mobile terminal may increase the buffer fill rate. As shown at operation S the mobile terminal sends a request to the base station and or the application server according to the increased encoding rate. Then the mobile terminal proceeds back to operation S to determine the predicted network performance parameters.

Additionally or alternatively in various embodiments if at operation S the predicted network performance parameters indicate that the encoding rate will likely to such an extent that the streaming application will likely be unable to provide a desired QoS QoE at operation S the mobile terminal may adjust a mode of operation from a streaming mode to a download mode. In such embodiments at operation S the mobile terminal may send a request to the base station and or the application server in order to download an entire video file or a portion of the video file so that the mobile terminal may store the video file in a local storage device. In this way the mobile terminal may playback the video file from the local storage device prior to the mobile terminal experiencing the degraded network conditions.

It should be noted that according to the first non limiting example embodiment if at operation S the mobile terminal predicts that more favorable network conditions will occur and or the video buffer reaches a desired capacity the mobile terminal may decrease the encoding rate in order to conserve network resources for the communications network and or conserve computational resources of the mobile terminal .

Referring back to if at operation S the mobile terminal determines that the predicted network performance parameters are within the desired threshold range e.g. at or near the desired encoding rate the mobile terminal proceeds to operation S to maintain the mode of operation e.g. the encoding rate of the mobile terminal . As shown at operation S the mobile terminal sends a request to the base station and or the application server according to a current encoding rate. Then the mobile terminal proceeds back to operation S to determine the predicted network performance parameters.

According to a second non limiting example embodiment the application is a turn by turn navigation application and operation adjustment routine may operate as follows.

As shown at operation S the mobile terminal determines predicted network performance parameters. As noted previously the mobile terminal may determine current network conditions current application parameters mobile terminal parameters and or environmental information. According to the second non limiting example embodiment the current mobile terminal parameters may include i a current position a current orientation and or a current movement velocity of the mobile terminal and or ii an antenna gain of the mobile terminal . The current network conditions may be based on historical parameters associated with various geolocations current geolocation and or predicted geolocations that the mobile terminal may travel to and a signal strength of a GPS signal. Additionally the mobile terminal may determine that a desired application parameter of the turn by turn navigation application includes a desired GPS signal strength.

As shown in operation S mobile terminal determines whether the predicted network performance parameters are within a desired threshold range. By way of example the mobile terminal may determine using GPS circuitry and or an accelerometer of the mobile terminal that the mobile terminal is approaching a geographic feature and or landmark at a certain movement velocity. Based on one or more historical parameters associated with the geographic feature and or landmark the mobile terminal may determine that the future network conditions will deteriorate as the mobile terminal becomes more proximate to the geographic feature and or landmark. The mobile terminal may then use the one or more historical parameters associated with the geographic feature and or landmark to calculate predicted network performance parameters such as a predicted GPS signal strength and the like.

If at operation S the mobile terminal determines that the predicted network performance parameters are not within a desired threshold range the mobile terminal proceeds to operation S to adjust the mode of operation of the mobile terminal . According to the second non limiting example embodiment the desired threshold range may be a range of desired GPS signal magnitudes that are determined based on the desired GPS signal strength. If the predicted network performance parameters indicate that the GPS signal strength will fall below the desired the GPS signal strength and or the range of desired signal strengths the mobile terminal may increase the antenna gain of the mobile terminal such that the GPS signal will be received or otherwise acquired at or near the desired GPS signal strength prior to the mobile terminal becoming more proximate to the geographic feature and or landmark.

According to the second non limiting example embodiment the turn by turn navigation application may not require requests to be sent received to from the base station and or the application server . Thus once the mobile terminal adjusts the mode of operation e.g. the antenna gain the mobile terminal proceeds back to operation S to determine the predicted network performance parameters. However in embodiments where the turn by turn navigation application does require requests to be sent received to from the base station and or the application server at operation S the mobile terminal may send a request to the base station and or the application server according to the adjusted mode of operation.

It should be noted that according to the second non limiting example embodiment as the mobile terminal becomes less proximate to the geographic feature and or landmark the mobile terminal may determine that the predicted future network conditions will likely become more favorable. Thus as the mobile terminal becomes less proximate to the geographic feature and or landmark the mobile terminal may decrease the antenna gain in order to conserve network resources for the communications network and or conserve computational resources of the mobile terminal .

According to a third non limiting example embodiment the application is a music streaming application and operation adjustment routine may operate as follows.

As shown at operation S the mobile terminal determines predicted network performance parameters. As noted previously the mobile terminal may determine current network conditions current application parameters mobile terminal parameters and or environmental information. According to the third non limiting example the current application parameters may include a buffer capacity of a music buffer a space availability of the music buffer and a buffer fill rate of the music buffer. The music buffer may be used for playback of the streaming audio data to provide a desired QoE when an encoding rate decreases. The mobile terminal parameters may be based at least on i a position of the mobile terminal an orientation of the mobile terminal a movement velocity of the mobile terminal and or a movement acceleration of the mobile terminal and or ii one or more peripheral devices connected to the mobile terminal . Furthermore the mobile terminal may determine that a desired application parameter of the music streaming application includes a desired encoding rate or bitrate.

Referring to in operations S S S and S the mobile terminal may increase or decrease the encoding rate and or the buffer fill rate based on the predicted network performance parameters in a same or similar fashion as discussed previously with regard to the first non limiting example.

Additionally or alternatively in operation S the mobile terminal may determine using for example the GPS circuitry of the mobile terminal that a movement velocity of the mobile terminal and or a movement acceleration of the mobile terminal is increasing by a rate of change. Furthermore the mobile terminal may use the GPS circuitry to determine a movement direction of the mobile terminal . Additionally and or alternatively in operation S the mobile terminal may determine environmental information surrounding the mobile terminal .

The mobile terminal may then use the movement direction and or the increasing rate of change of the mobile terminal to calculate predicted network performance parameters such as a predicted signal strength a predicted available bandwidth and the like. By way of example the mobile terminal may determine using the GPS circuitry that the mobile terminal is approaching a region at a certain movement velocity and or movement acceleration. Based on one or more historical parameters associated with the region the mobile terminal may determine that the future network conditions may not deteriorate as the mobile terminal becomes more proximate to the region. However based on one or more environmental factors measured by the mobile terminal the mobile terminal may determine that the future network conditions will likely deteriorate due to inclement weather approaching the region. The mobile terminal may then use the one or more historical parameters associated with the region and the one or more measured environmental factors to calculate predicted network performance parameters such as the predicted signal strength and the like.

According to a fourth non limiting example embodiment the application is a time management application and operation adjustment routine may operate as follows.

As shown at operation S the mobile terminal determines predicted network performance parameters. As noted previously the mobile terminal may determine current network conditions current application parameters and mobile terminal parameters. According to the fourth non limiting example embodiment the current application parameters may include calendar information and or scheduling information that may be entered into the time management application by a user of the mobile terminal . In some embodiments the time management application may interact with one or more other applications of the mobile terminal e.g. an email native application and the like to obtain the calendar information and or the scheduling information. For the fourth non limiting example embodiment it is assumed that the time management application determines that a user of the mobile terminal is scheduled to fly from a first airport at a first time and date and arrive at a second airport at a second time and date. Additionally the mobile terminal parameters may be based at least on a geolocation and or position of the mobile terminal .

As shown in operation S mobile terminal determines whether the predicted network performance parameters are within a desired threshold range. By way of example the mobile terminal may determine that the predicted network performance parameters will be substantially non existent during a time period lasting from the first time and date to the second time and date. According to various embodiments the mobile terminal may establish a first event trigger based on i the first time and date and or ii a geolocation associated with the first airport. Additionally the mobile terminal may establish a second event trigger based on i the second time and date and or ii a geolocation associated with the second airport.

When the mobile terminal detects that the first event has occurred e.g. the mobile terminal becomes proximate to the geolocation associated with the first airport at or around the first time and date a first event trigger may be triggered and the mobile terminal may determine that the predicted network performance parameters will be substantially non existent. Once the first event trigger is triggered the mobile terminal may calculate the predicted network performance parameters to be at or near zero.

As noted above if at operation S the mobile terminal determines that the predicted network performance parameters are not within the desired threshold range the mobile terminal proceeds to operation S to adjust the mode of operation of the mobile terminal . According to the fourth non limiting example embodiment the mode of operation may be placing the mobile terminal in airplane mode a sleep mode or shutting the mobile terminal off. The airplane mode or sleep mode may is a setting available the mobile terminal which when activated suspends one or more signal transmitting functions while still permitting use of other non signaling functions e.g. video playback audio playback image sensor functionality and the like .

According to the fourth non limiting example embodiment the desired threshold range may be a range of desired wireless network signal magnitudes that are determined based on a desired wireless signal strength. If the predicted network performance parameters indicate that the wireless network signal strength will fall below the desired wireless network signal strength the mobile terminal may place the mobile terminal in airplane mode prior to the mobile terminal experiencing the degraded wireless signal strength.

According to the fourth non limiting example embodiment the time management application may not require requests to be sent received to from the base station and or the application server . Thus once the mobile terminal adjusts the mode of operation e.g. setting the mobile terminal to the airplane mode the mobile terminal proceeds back to operation S to determine the predicted network performance parameters.

According to the fourth non limiting example embodiment the mobile terminal may detect that the second trigger event has occurred e.g. the mobile terminal becomes proximate to the geolocation associated with the second airport at or around the second time and date . In such embodiments because the mobile terminal is in airplane mode the mobile terminal may use non signaling based functionality to determine that the second event has occurred. For example the second event may be determined to have occurred based on a current time and date and or environmental factors measured by at least one component of the mobile terminal . When the mobile terminal detects that the second event has occurred a second event trigger may be triggered and the mobile terminal may then adjust the mode of operation of the mobile terminal such that the mobile terminal is placed in a normal operating mode. Once the mobile terminal is placed in the normal operating mode the mobile terminal may calculate predicted network performance parameters according to the aforementioned example embodiments.

According to a fifth non limiting example embodiment the application is a text messaging application and operation adjustment routine may operate as follows.

As shown at operation S the mobile terminal determines predicted network performance parameters. As noted previously the mobile terminal may determine current network conditions current application parameters and mobile terminal parameters. According to the fifth non limiting example embodiment the current application parameters may include contact information such as phone numbers email addresses and or other like contact information associated with one or more persons know to a user of the mobile terminal . The contact information that may be entered into or otherwise obtained by text messaging application by a user of the mobile terminal . In some embodiments the text messaging application may interact with one or more other applications of the mobile terminal e.g. an email application a time management application an address book application and the like to obtain the contact information.

For the fifth non limiting example embodiment it is assumed that the text messaging application determines that a user of the mobile terminal is operating a motor vehicle. In various embodiments the mobile terminal may use a gyroscope and or accelerometer to determine movement factors such as a position change of the mobile terminal an orientation change of the mobile terminal and or a movement velocity of the mobile terminal . Additionally the mobile terminal may use an image sensor a microphone and or one or more biometric sensors to determine biometric factors such as an eye movement of a user of the mobile terminal a heart rate of the user of the mobile terminal a body temperature of the user of the mobile terminal and or other like biometric data. The mobile terminal may use one or more of the aforementioned movement factors and or biometric factors to determine that the user of the mobile terminal is operating a motor vehicle.

As shown in operation S mobile terminal determines whether the predicted network performance parameters are within a desired threshold range. By way of example the mobile terminal may determine that the predicted network performance parameters indicate that future network conditions may likely be relatively favorable. However according to various embodiments a virtual local network generated by the mobile terminal may indicate that the network conditions are not favorable for operating a text messaging application based on the determination that the user of the mobile terminal is operating a motor vehicle. Therefore according to the fifth non limiting example embodiment when the mobile terminal detects that the user of the mobile terminal is operating a motor vehicle the mobile terminal may determine that the predicted network performance parameters will be substantially non existent for text messaging applications. In various embodiments even though the mobile terminal may determine that the predicted network performance parameters will be substantially non existent for text messaging applications the mobile terminal may determine that the predicted network performance parameters may be favorable for other applications running on the mobile terminal .

As noted above if at operation S the mobile terminal determines that the predicted network performance parameters are not within the desired threshold range the mobile terminal proceeds to operation S to adjust the mode of operation of the mobile terminal . According to the fifth non limiting example embodiment the mode of operation may be placing the mobile terminal in a sleep mode disabling a text messaging functionality and or any other means of reducing an ability of the user of the mobile terminal from using the text messaging application.

According to the fifth non limiting example embodiment the desired threshold range may be a range of desired movement velocity magnitudes that are determined based on a current movement velocity and or a predicted movement velocities. Additionally the desired threshold range may be a range of eye movement rates of change. Furthermore the desired threshold range may be a range of mobile device orientation change rates. If the predicted network performance parameters indicate that i the movement velocity of the mobile terminal will rise above the desired movement velocity magnitude ii that the eye movement rate of change will rise above the desired eye movement rate of change and or iii that the mobile terminal orientation rate of change will rise above the desired mobile device orientation rate the mobile terminal may disable to text messaging functionality of the mobile terminal while the user of the mobile terminal is operating the motor vehicle.

According to the fifth non limiting example embodiment the text messaging application may not require requests to be sent received to from the base station and or the application server . Thus once the mobile terminal adjusts the mode of operation e.g. disabling to text messaging functionality the mobile terminal proceeds back to operation S to determine the predicted network performance parameters.

According to the fifth non limiting example embodiment after a period of time the mobile terminal may detect that the user of the mobile terminal has stopped operating the motor vehicle. In such embodiments when the mobile terminal detects that the user of the mobile terminal has stopped operating the motor vehicle the mobile terminal may then adjust the mode of operation to enable the text messaging functionality of the mobile terminal . Once the mobile terminal is enables the text messaging functionality the mobile terminal may calculate predicted network performance parameters according to the aforementioned example embodiments.

As will be appreciated the systems and methods according to the example embodiments provide several advantages. First the example embodiments allows for a mobile terminal to generate its own virtual local network based on network performance parameters application parameters mobile terminal parameters and or environmental information which may then be used for a more efficient allocation of network resources and a reduction in overhead. Second the example embodiments allow for easy implementation because the methods and systems as discussed above may be used by already established mobile terminals and or network elements. Third the example embodiments may allow application developers to optimize a QoS QoE of their applications without requiring knowledge of wireless network topology and or configuration of network elements.

The invention being thus described it will be obvious that the same may be varied in many ways. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the invention and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the present invention.

