---

title: Interaction privacy in a default network
abstract: A system and a method are disclosed for controlling access to content in a default network computing system. The method includes receiving a request for a data item from a user, retrieving privacy settings associated with the data item, and retrieving groups associated with the requesting user's user profile. An access level is determined based on the groups associated with the requesting user profile and the retrieved privacy setting. The data item is redacted based on the determined access level and then provided for display to the requesting user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09369471&OS=09369471&RS=09369471
owner: FOXWORDY INC.
number: 09369471
owner_city: San Carlos
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140224
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 889 008 filed Oct. 9 2013 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The disclosure generally relates to the field of social networking and more particularly to controlling access to user generated content in a social network computing system.

In a professional work environment professionals may seek advice ask questions or share documents with colleagues. Because interactions within the professional work environment happen in person by phone or by email participants in an interaction know each other s identities. Although knowing an interlocutor s identity may be beneficial for ensuring quality and accountability non anonymity may stifle interactions regarding sensitive matters. Some licensed professionals may be constrained by avoiding the appearance of giving advice in an informal situation. Additionally the pool of colleagues available with which to discuss matters is limited. Finding someone with the knowledge to handle a rare complicated or special circumstance may be a matter of luck when dealing with traditional professional contacts. Currently no social network adequately fits the needs of professionals for a discrete method of interacting with a wider range of colleagues than is possible without technology.

The Figures FIGS. and the following description relate to preferred embodiments by way of illustration only. It should be noted that from the following discussion alternative embodiments of the structures and methods disclosed herein will be readily recognized as viable alternatives that may be employed without departing from the principles of what is claimed.

Reference will now be made in detail to several embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying figures. It is noted that wherever practicable similar or like reference numbers may be used in the figures and may indicate similar or like functionality. The figures depict embodiments of the disclosed system or method for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following description that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

One embodiment of a disclosed system and method and computer readable storage medium includes controlling access to content and user information in a default network for users of a social network computing system. A default network computing system contains computer systems configured as client computer systems or client devices or clients and server computer systems or server devices or servers connected by a network. Users of the default network computing environment may upload data including personal information and content to a server and may view data uploaded by other users. The default network server contains storage modules to organize uploaded data for manipulation and retrieval as well as engines to process and retrieve data in a form useful to the user. Users are organized into one or more default networks which contain users sharing one or more attributes. Users may also create connections with other user profiles with which they wish to interact.

When uploading content to the default network users may specify privacy settings that indicate which users may view the uploaded content. Users may make content they upload public or may limit access to user profiles with which they are connected or share a default network. Users may additionally specify settings governing use of personal information. Users may control availability of information on their user profiles as well as identifying information associated with their interactions on the default network. Also disclosed is a configuration for ensuring that content is accessed by viewers as specified by privacy settings associated with the content. The configuration also removes information that an uploading user of the content intends to keep private. Example user interfaces for specifying privacy settings are also disclosed.

Turning first to it is a block diagram illustrating components of an example machine able to read instructions from a machine readable medium and execute them in a processor or controller . Specifically shows a diagrammatic representation of a machine in the example form of a computer system within which instructions e.g. software for causing the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein may be executed. In alternative embodiments the machine operates as a standalone device or may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the machine may operate in the capacity of a server machine or device or a client machine or device in a server client network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment.

The machine may be a server device or computer or a client device or computer that can be structured as a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular telephone a smartphone a web appliance a network router switch or bridge or any machine capable of executing instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. Further while only a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU a digital signal processor DSP one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs one or more radio frequency integrated circuits RFICs or any combination of these a main memory and a static memory which are configured to communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include graphics display unit e.g. a plasma display panel PDP a liquid crystal display LCD a projector or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system may also include alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a trackball a joystick a motion sensor or other pointing instrument a storage unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device which also are configured to communicate via the bus .

The storage unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions e.g. software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory or within the processor e.g. within a processor s cache memory during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media. The instructions e.g. software may be transmitted or received over a network e.g. WiFi 3G 4G Ethernet digital subscriber line DSL fiber optic network via the network interface device .

While machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database or associated caches and servers able to store instructions e.g. instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing instructions e.g. instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies disclosed herein. The term machine readable medium includes but not be limited to data repositories in the form of solid state memories optical media and magnetic media.

Referring now to illustrated is a block diagram of a default network environment in an example embodiment. The default network environment includes one or more client device e.g. a personal computer a tablet a smartphone a cellular phone a terminal a smart television a personal digital assistant PDA a smart watch a wearable computer a network and a network server . A computer system may be used in some embodiments of the client device and or network server . The one or more client devices are coupled to the network which is in turn coupled to the network server . In an alternate embodiment additional networks client devices and or network servers may be present. For example an additional network server may act as a proxy server between the one or more client devices and another network server .

The one or more client devices may be used by users to view upload submit and interact with content in the default network. For example a user may provide a numerical rating of content uploaded by another user. Users of the one or more client devices may create user profiles and may connect their user profiles on the default network to other user profiles on the default network. Users of the one or more client devices may declare or modify preferences governing their user profile and or content they upload. For example a user may limit who may view content that the user has uploaded. In an example embodiment HyperText Markup Language HTML code is used to display content on the client device . Alternate embodiments may use other data interchange formats such as Extensible Markup Language XML or JavaScript Object Notation JSON . A client device may be associated with a single user profile or the client device may be associated with multiple user profiles. In an embodiment a user may access their user profile through multiple client devices .

In one embodiment the network server stores data about the default network including user profiles content and connections between users. The network server may retrieve and or process data as requested by users of client devices . In an embodiment HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP may be used to exchange or transfer data between a network server and a client device using HTTP methods including GET POST PUT and DELETE. In an alternate embodiment some or all of the processing and or storing functions of the network server may be performed by one or more client devices alone or in combination with a network server . In an alternate embodiment a single device may implement components of a client device and a network server .

Referring now to illustrated is a block diagram of a network server used to implement the default network in one embodiment. The network server contains a user profile store a connection store a content store a default network store a visibility level store a profile visibility store an item visibility store an interaction store a visibility engine and a user interface engine . The user profile store contains information that a user has provided e.g. a user profile created by a user . Example information in a user profile entry of the user profile store may include a unique user identification ID first name last name location company title account type expertise and practice area. Other information in a user profile may include previous work history education honors awards associations languages certifications contact details a profile image uploaded by the user and a written biographical summary or statement of purpose submitted by the user.

The connection store stores one or more connections made between users using their user profiles. In an embodiment connections are stored as connection entries between a user profile and another user profile. User profiles that are connected may be granted additional access to each other s user profiles or content that has been uploaded. Connections may be used to create an individualized activity feed for a user that summarizes recent actions taken by connections and other relevant users. An example activity feed may include recently uploaded excerpted content items recent comments on excerpted content items requests referrals or questions. Connections may be additionally be used to suggest new connections e.g. based on connections in common . User profiles that are connected to a particular user profile may have additional opportunities for interaction with the particular user profile such as suggesting new connections sending messages requests referrals content items or questions for example. A user profile connected with a particular user profile may have additional access to the particular user s excerpted content and or user profile page.

The content store stores excerpted content items uploaded by users of the default network computing system. In one embodiment excerpted content is stored as text or as a text file but other embodiments may contain content including images videos and or audio files. Excerpted content items in the content store may be accessed through a search interface or other links in the user interface. Excerpted content items may be displayed by the user interface engine . In an embodiment excerpted content items may be uploaded as Clauses defined herein as text entered into the default network user interface and Documents defined herein as files uploaded through the default network user interface. Example information stored in a content store entry may include content text content title a user identification ID of a user profile that created the content item time created time stored time updated time published content state content identification ID a content key generated by hashing the content text content metadata and content file size. The excerpted content store may be accessed by the user interface engine .

The default network store stores data relating to a default network. A user profile is associated with a default network based on one or more attributes a user profile shares with other user profiles in the default network. An example entry in the default network store may include a unique identifier for the default network user profiles associated with the default network and common attributes of those user profiles associated with the default network. In an alternate embodiment a user profile may be placed in one or more default networks according to one or more attributes chosen by a user who created the user profile. Attributes of a user profile may include practice area location expertise occupation industry sub industry employer and account type. For example a user profile may be placed in the same default network as other users having the same account type location and practice area. The default network may be used to suggest additional connections for a user profile i.e. other user profiles in the user s default network . Membership in a default network may grant access to user profiles of member users in the default network or excerpted content items or interactions uploaded by member users in the default network. In an embodiment the default network may be used to generate an activity feed listing excerpted content uploaded to other user profiles interactions with excerpted content and between user profiles.

The visibility level store defines one or more privacy categories. A privacy category may be associated with an item such as a user profile an interaction a connection invitation or an excerpted content item. Interactions include comments questions referrals discussions answers and requests. A visibility level may define which user profiles may see an item created by a particular user profile. Example visibility levels include everyone e.g. all user profiles may see the item connections only e.g. user profiles connected with the particular user profile may see the item default network e.g. user profiles in the same default network as the particular user profile may see the item invite only e.g. user profiles are chosen that may view the item user only e.g. only the user profile that uploaded an item may view the item and hidden e.g. no user may view the item . The visibility level store is referenced by the profile visibility store and the item visibility store and may be accessed by the visibility engine or the user interface engine .

The profile visibility store defines privacy settings associated with a particular user profile. Example privacy settings may include settings on a user profile s activity feed profile image connections reputation a numerical quantification of a user profile s activity level and perception within the default network environment anonymity level and contact detail privacy. The privacy settings may include some privacy settings that apply by default but may be overruled in some situations by a user. For example a user may choose a privacy setting designating that excerpted content uploaded by the user has a default network visibility level unless that user specifies a different privacy setting for a particular document. Anonymity level privacy settings control how a user profile appears to other users. For example a user can choose full anonymity non anonymity or partial anonymity e.g. name and company are hidden but job title and location are displayed . The profile visibility store may be accessed by the visibility engine or the user interface engine .

The item visibility store defines the visibility level for a particular item. Items may include interactions between user profiles or interactions with excerpted content items. Interactions having an associated visibility level defined in the visibility store may include questions referrals discussions answers and requests. Other interactions such as comments likes favorites ratings shares searches or views may have visibility levels defined according to a user profile s entry in the profile visibility store . For example comments on an excerpted content item may be visible to user profiles that may view the excerpted content item. Likes favorites and ratings for example may be visible in aggregate to user profiles that may an excerpted content item but the individual user profiles contributing to the aggregate may be anonymous. In an embodiment searches and views by a user profile are hidden from other user profiles. The item visibility store is accessed by the visibility engine and the user interface engine .

The interaction store records interactions between user profiles. For example the interaction store may record when a user chooses to follow another user s user profile to state interest in another user s user profile to state another user profile as a favorite to share excerpted content with a user profile to comment on excerpted content to rate excerpted content up vote or like excerpted content to make or fulfill a request to ask or answer a question to request or make a referral to search for content to search for a user profile or to view content. Entries in the interaction store may include fields identifying the interaction type an interaction identification ID a user ID of the user profile that initiated the interaction a user ID of a user profile at which an interaction is directed a time the interaction occurred a time the interaction was updated an interaction ID corresponding to another interaction responsive to the interaction a message included in the interaction and other fields relevant to the particular interaction. The interaction store may be accessed by the user interface engine to generate user interaction histories or to suggest connections or excerpted content to a user profile.

The visibility engine which may be configured with elements similar to the computer system determines which users may see items such as interactions excerpted content items user profile information and it determines how much data the item contains is available for display to a user. In an embodiment the visibility engine receives requests from the user interface engine regarding an item. The visibility engine may check the visibility level store the profile visibility store the item visibility store or a combination thereof to determine which user profiles may see the item. If a user profile may see an item the visibility engine may further determine which information in an item may be displayed to the user profile that may see the item. For example an excerpted content item may have a visibility level set to default network and the user who uploaded the excerpted content item may have specified partial anonymity. In the example visibility engine would determine which user profiles may see the excerpted content item by retrieving user profiles in the uploading user profile s default network. In the example the visibility engine would further determine that those in the user profile s default network would have access to the uploading user profile s location and title but not the uploading user profile s name and company.

The user interface engine which may be configured with elements similar to the computer system creates interfaces to provide for display on a client device . Example interfaces may be structured to display a user profile connections of a user profile pending connections potential connections connections in a default network excerpted content submitted by a user profile interactions between one user profile and another user profile and or aggregations of user interactions. Example interfaces may be structured to display data passively and or accept input from the user of a client device . The user interface engine may retrieve store and or modify data from the user profile store the connection store the content store the default network store the visibility level store the profile visibility store the item visibility store and or the interaction store . The user interface engine may provide data and or inputs to the visibility engine .

The network server may contain additional modules engines or stores. For example the network server may include a file store to store the original files for uploaded Documents. The network server may include a connection invitations store to track pending connection invitations. As another example the network server may contain a content misuse table which contains reports from users of inappropriate or confidential content. In an embodiment the network server may contain additional tables to categorize excerpted content items such as attributes associated with an excerpted content item. The network server may contain additional engines for handling connection requests for uploading excerpted content to the content store for creating and modifying default networks in the default network store or for calculating user reputation.

Referring now to illustrated are entries for tracking visibility and privacy settings for users and for items in the default network computing system. In one embodiment data stores e.g. are implemented in a Relational Database Management System RDBMS implemented in a programming language such as Structured Query Language SQL PostgreSQL MySQL SQL Server or Oracle. An example visibility level entry implements the visibility level store and contains fields including a visibility level field a visibility description field a time created field and a time updated field . The visibility level field indicates a name of a visibility level available for use in entries of the profile visibility store and entries in the item visibility store . Example visibility levels include everyone e.g. all user profiles may see the item connections only e.g. user profiles connected with the particular user profiles may see the item default network e.g. user profiles in the same default network as the particular user may see the item and invite only e.g. the particular user chooses specific user profiles that may see the item .

The visibility description field describes the relationship between the user profiles that may see an item and the user profile that created the item. The visibility description may be used by the user interface engine to indicate to users what an available visibility level denotes. The time created field indicates the time at which a visibility level entry was created. The time updated field indicates the time at which a visibility level entry was last updated. In an embodiment visibility level entries are created by administrators or designers of the default network computing system but in an alternate embodiment visibility level entries may be created by users either explicitly or implicitly. For example choosing an invite only visibility level may create a custom visibility level based on the user profiles invited to see a content item.

An example profile visibility entry implements the profile visibility store and contains fields including a user identification ID field an activity feed privacy field a picture privacy field a connection privacy field a reputation privacy field an anonymity level field a contact detail privacy field a time created field and a time updated field . The user ID field specifies a user who may modify the profile visibility entry . The user ID field matches the user ID in the specified user profile s entry in the user profile store . The activity feed privacy field specifies a visibility level determining which user profiles may see activities performed by the specified user profile. Example activities include creating an excerpted content item question referral request or discussion or interacting with an item by answering a question or request making a referral or liking rating commenting or marking as a favorite an excerpted content item.

The picture privacy field specifies a visibility level for a photo uploaded to the specified user profile as a profile image. If the visibility level in the picture privacy field includes a viewing user s user profile then the viewing user may see the profile image alongside the name of the specified user profile in an embodiment. If the visibility level does not include a viewing user s user profile then the viewing user sees a generic outline of a person in an embodiment. The connection privacy field specifies a visibility level for a user profile s connections. If the visibility level in the connection privacy field includes a viewing user s user profile then the viewing user may see connections of the specified user profile in an embodiment. The reputation privacy field specifies a visibility level for a user profile s reputation score. If the reputation privacy field specifies a visibility level that includes a viewing user s user profile the viewing user may see the specified user profile s reputation as well as the specified user profile in displayed reputation rankings.

The anonymity level field specifies how much identifying information viewing users may see in references to the specified user profile. In an embodiment a user can choose full anonymity non anonymity e.g. name location job title and or company displayed or partial anonymity e.g. job title and location . In an embodiment the anonymity level field affects how the specified user profile appears to users who see the specified user profile s interactions uploaded excerpted content and user profile page. The contact detail privacy field specifies a visibility level for a user profile s contact details e.g. phone number address email address website . If the contact detail privacy field specifies a visibility level that includes a viewing user s user profile the viewing user may see contact details provided by the specified user when viewing the user profile of the specified user. In one embodiment a user may choose to hide contact details from the user s user profile. The time created field indicates the time at which the profile visibility entry was created. The time updated field indicates the time at which the profile visibility entry was last updated. In an alternate embodiment the profile visibility entry may contain additional fields specifying visibility levels for more specific categories of interactions or for other actions of a user profile within the default network computing system. The profile visibility entry may also contain fields specifying privacy settings governing which user profiles may contact a user s user profile e.g. through the default networking computer system through an email through a connection request .

An example item visibility entry implements the item visibility store and contains fields including an item identification ID field an item type field a user identification ID field an anonymity level field a visibility level field a time created field and a time updated field . The item ID field identifies an item. In an embodiment the item ID field matches an interaction ID in the interaction store . The item type field specifies the type of item described by the item visibility entry . Example items may include an excerpted content item a question a referral a request or a discussion. The user ID field specifies the user profile that created the identified item and matches the user ID corresponding to the creating user s entry in the user profile store . The anonymity level field specifies how much identifying information viewing users may see in the identified item s reference to the creating user profile. In an embodiment the creating user can choose full anonymity non anonymity e.g. name location job title and or company displayed or partial anonymity e.g. job title and location . The anonymity level field may override the anonymity level field in the user s profile visibility entry .

The visibility level field indicates the visibility level associated with the identified item. If the visibility level in the visibility level field includes a viewing user s user profile then the viewing user may see the identified item in an embodiment. Example visibility levels include everyone i.e. all user profiles may see the identified item connections only i.e. user profiles connected with the creating user s user profile may see the identified item default network i.e. users in the same default network as the particular user may see the identified item and invite only i.e. the creating user chooses specific user profiles that may see the identified item . The time created field indicates the time at which the item visibility entry was created. The time updated field indicates the time at which the item visibility entry was last updated. In an alternate embodiment the item visibility entry may contain additional fields. For example the item visibility entry may specify differing anonymity levels depending on a group associated with a viewing user s user profile e.g. a default network a connection .

Referring now to illustrated is a flow chart of an example process for displaying content while ensuring privacy in the default network computing system. The example privacy checking process receives a request to view a data item from a user profile retrieves a privacy setting associated with the requested data item retrieves groups associated with the requesting user profile determines an access level redacts the requested data item based the determined access level and displays redacted data item. In an embodiment the privacy checking process is implemented through the visibility engine . A request to view a data item may be received from a user through the user interface engine or through an application programming interface API associated with the default network computing system. Example data items may include an item such as an excerpted content item a question a referral a request or a discussion. Additional data items may include a user profile a reputation ranking or an interaction such as a comment a like a favorite a rating a share a search or a view.

One or more privacy settings associated with the requested data item are retrieved from the profile visibility store or the item visibility store . Privacy settings include visibility levels anonymity levels and other settings contained in a user s profile visibility entry . The one or more privacy settings retrieved depend on the data item. For an item a privacy setting may be found in the item visibility store . For interactions with an item e.g. a comment a like a favorite a rating a privacy setting may be inherited from the item associated with the interaction. For example if an excerpted content item is visible to connections of a user profile that uploaded the excerpted content item then comments on the excerpted content item are visible to the connections of the uploading user. Multiple privacy settings may be retrieved in some instances. In one embodiment privacy settings for an interaction with an item may be retrieved from the profile visibility store e.g. a privacy setting associated with the user profile that created the interaction and the item visibility store . Example fields containing privacy settings e.g. and are given in the profile visibility entry and the item visibility entry .

Continuing the previous example an additional privacy setting may be retrieved from the profile visibility store associated with the user profile that commented on the excerpted content item. In the example a combination of the retrieved privacy settings for the commenting user and the excerpted content item may determine the access level for a requesting user profile and how the data content is redacted . In an embodiment some data items may be associated with a privacy setting. For example views or searches may be associated either implicitly or explicitly with a hidden setting where a log of views and or searches is not retrievable or with a user only setting where a log of views and or searches may be viewed only by the user profile that made the views and or searches. In an alternate embodiment a user profile may voluntarily join user organized groups of user profiles which may be specified in a privacy setting.

Once one or more privacy settings are retrieved user groups associated with the requesting user profile are retrieved . In one embodiment user groups relevant to the one or more retrieved privacy settings are retrieved rather than all groups associated with the requesting user. For example if a retrieved privacy setting concerns a default network then one or more default networks associated with the requesting user profile are retrieved . If for example the retrieved privacy setting indicates that the visibility level associated with the data item is connections only then the connections of the requesting user profile may be retrieved . In one embodiment if the retrieved privacy setting indicates that the visibility setting is everyone hidden or user only then no groups or connections are retrieved . In one embodiment if the retrieved privacy setting is invitation only then no groups or connections are retrieved .

Using the retrieved privacy settings and retrieved user groups an access level is determined for the requesting user profile. Example access levels may include full access partial access and no access. If a user profile has full access to an item the user profile may see links to the item and may access data associated with the item. If a user profile has no access to an item the user profile may not see links to the item or access data associated with the item. In an alternate embodiment an access level may grant ability to see links to an item including identifying information e.g. title practice area without granting access to data associated with the item e.g. text content comments . If the viewing user profile s retrieved groups and or connections match the default networks groups and or connections specified in the retrieved privacy setting then the viewing user profile s access level may be determined as full access or partial access. If a user profile does not have connections or membership in the associated group or default network then a user profile s granted access level may be determined as no access. Partial access indicates a partial level of access where a user profile may see data about an item without full access to data. In an embodiment partial access may include many partial access levels granting varying levels of access to a data item. For example if a user profile asks a question while remaining anonymous viewing user profiles may be determined to have partial access rather than full access because viewing user profiles may not access identifying data about the uploading user profile. In an embodiment there may be conflicting privacy settings retrieved which may be resolved based on privacy settings for a particular item taking precedence over default privacy settings from a user profile. For example a user profile s anonymity level from the profile visibility store may indicate non anonymity but the item s anonymity level from the item visibility store may indicate full anonymity. In this example the applicable privacy setting would be an anonymity level of full anonymity because the item specific privacy setting supersedes the user profile s default privacy setting.

Based on the determined access level the data item is redacted . If a viewing user profile is determined to have a full access level the data item may be presented without any data removed. If a viewing user profile is determined to have no access level the data item may be entirely obscured or hidden. For example if a viewing user profile has no access to a particular user profile s reputation as specified by the profile visibility store then the viewing user profile may not see the particular user profile in reputation rankings. If the viewing user profile is determined to have a partial access level then data are redacted as directed by the partial access level. For example if a retrieved privacy setting from the profile visibility store specifies that a user profile should appear anonymous then the user profile s location may be used in place of the user profile s name and company. As another example if a particular user profile s contact detail privacy field indicates no access for other user profiles then the particular user profile s contact details may be removed from the user profile for display to a user who may otherwise view the particular user s profile.

The redacted data item is presented for display through the user interface engine . In an alternate embodiment the redacted data item may be sent to fulfill a request unrelated to display e.g. through an API associated with the default network computing system . In an embodiment the privacy checking process may be repeated multiple times to check multiple data items that may be prepared for display on a single webpage or interface. In an alternate embodiment additional privacy settings may exist such as separate default privacy settings for different types of interactions. Privacy settings may be determined by users or in an alternate embodiment inferred or set by the default network computing system. For example privacy settings may vary according to the account type of the viewing user profile. As an example a particular user profile may indicate a privacy setting of everyone for an excerpted content item but user profiles with a basic account type may be given limited or no access unless they are connected to the particular user profile.

Referring to illustrated is an example user interface for controlling privacy settings associated with a user profile in the default network computing system. The user privacy control interface contains profile modification options settings tabs and privacy controls . The settings tabs include a profile privacy settings tab and the privacy controls include an activity feed privacy setting a profile image privacy setting a connection privacy setting a reputation privacy setting an anonymity level setting and a contact details privacy setting . The user interface engine in an embodiment may respond to inputs from a viewing user through the privacy control interface .

The profile modification options list current information associated with the viewing user s profile as retrieved from the user profile store . A viewing user profile may modify or add information to the viewing user profile s entry in the user profile store . For example the viewing user can change the user profile s password edit user profile data change payment options or change a profile image. The profile image may appear on the corresponding user profile and may also appear next to the viewing user s identifying information in other interface of the default network system e.g. next to an uploaded excerpted content item or a comment . The settings tabs may be used to select different settings of options. One example set of options includes the profile privacy settings tab but others may include settings relating to interactions and excerpted content communication preferences and the viewing user s user profile. Communication preferences may indicate which user profiles may contact the viewing user e.g. through the default networking computer system through an email through a connection request as well as what automated communications the viewing user may receive from the default network computing system e.g. email digests of recent interactions by user profiles connected with the viewing user profile or responses to excerpted content uploaded by the viewing user profile . Account preferences may include payment settings and options to change account type.

When the profile privacy settings tab is selected the privacy controls may be shown. Selecting the activity feed privacy setting opens a submenu shown in . The submenu includes an activity feed privacy selector A. In the example shown the activity feed privacy selector A contains privacy settings including everyone connections only and default network. A privacy setting selected by a user from the activity feed privacy selector A may be stored in the activity feed privacy field . In an alternate embodiment additional privacy settings may be available. Activity feeds for user profiles that are determined to have access according to the selected privacy setting may include interactions and excerpted content items posted by the viewing user.

Selecting the profile image privacy setting opens a submenu shown in . The submenu includes a current profile image A a profile image upload button B a profile image privacy selector C and profile image submission buttons D. The current profile image A indicates a current image associated with a user profile. Example image formats include Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG format Portable Network Graphics PNG format Graphics Interchange Format GIF . In an alternate embodiment other image formats such as Tag Image File Format TIFF or bitmap image file BMP format. The profile image upload button B may be selected to choose an image file for use as a profile image. An uploaded profile image may be stored in the user profile store . In the example shown the profile image privacy selector C contains privacy settings including everyone connections only default network and user only. In an alternate embodiment additional privacy settings may be available. The profile submission buttons D are used to save changes to the profile image privacy setting or discard changes. If the submit button is selected the selected privacy setting from the profile image privacy selector C may be stored in the picture privacy field .

Selecting the connection privacy setting opens a submenu shown in . The submenu includes a connection privacy setting selector A. In the example shown the profile image privacy selector A contains privacy settings including everyone connections only default network and user only. A privacy setting selected by a user from the connection privacy setting selector A may be stored in the connection privacy field . In an alternate embodiment additional privacy settings may be available. User profiles that are determined to have access according to the selected privacy setting may see connections of the viewing user profile e.g. in the viewing user s profile page or as connection suggestions based on the viewing user profile s connection .

Selecting the reputation privacy setting opens a submenu shown in . The submenu includes a reputation privacy setting selector A. In the example shown the reputation privacy setting selector A contains privacy settings including everyone connections only default network and user only. A privacy setting selected by a user from the reputation privacy setting selector A may be stored in the reputation privacy field . In an alternate embodiment additional privacy settings may be available.

Selecting the anonymity level setting opens a submenu shown in . The submenu includes a non anonymity selection A a partial anonymity selection B a full anonymity selection C and an anonymity setting submission button D. Anonymity levels are used as the default settings governing how much identifying information other user profiles may see about a user profile s interactions in the default network. In an embodiment a user may select a different anonymity level from the default selected in the anonymity level setting . The non anonymity selection A grants a viewing user profile visibility to the selecting user profile s name title and company in one embodiment. The partial anonymity selection B grants a viewing user profile visibility to the selecting user profile s title and location in one embodiment. The full anonymity selection C does not grant a viewing user profile visibility to the selecting user profile s identifying or personal information. Selecting the anonymity setting submission button D may store the selected anonymity level from A B or C to the anonymity level field . In an alternate embodiment additional anonymity levels may be available granting a viewing user profile visibility to different combinations of identifying information from the user profile store .

Selecting the contact details privacy setting opens a submenu illustrated in . The submenu includes a contact details privacy selection A and a contact details privacy submission button B. A user may select the contact details privacy selection A to hide contact details from a profile page or the user may unselect the contact details privacy selection A to make contact details visible in a profile page. Contact details may include personal and or professional mailing address physical address email address phone number fax number or other information from the user profile store. In an alternate embodiment a user may selectively hide different contact details e.g. hiding a personal email while leaving a professional email public . In an alternate embodiment a user may choose particular groups of user profiles that may view contact details. For example a user may choose to hide contact details from everyone but allow the user profile s connections and default network to view contact details. When a user selects the contact details privacy submission button B the user s selection may be stored to the contact detail privacy field .

Referring to illustrated is an example user interface for interacting with user profiles through the default network computing system using a question. The question interface includes a text input field a practice area selector a topic selector a privacy selector an anonymity selector an attachment selector a social network sharing option and submission buttons . The interaction interface also includes an urgency selector which is partially occluded in . In one embodiment there may be additional interfaces for requests referrals answers and or discussions similar to the question interface .

An interacting user uses the text input field to communicate the interacting user s question to the default network. The text may be entered into the textbox using the alpha numeric input device a copy and paste functionality or a drag and drop functionality. Although the example question interface has a 100 word limit on the text input field another embodiment may have a different limit or no limit on the amount of text in the text input field . The interacting user may select a practice area from the practice area selector as well as a topic from the topic selector . In one embodiment the interacting user chooses a practice area and a topic from a list but in an alternate embodiment the interacting user may input a practice area or topic into a text input field. In one embodiment the practice area selector and topic selector are used for indexing and or filtering search results containing interactions.

The interacting user may choose a privacy setting from the privacy selector which controls which user profiles may see the question. Example privacy settings include everyone connections only default network and colleagues. The privacy setting from the privacy selector may be stored in the visibility level field . The interacting user may choose an anonymity level from the anonymity selector which controls what identifying information from the interacting user is associated with the question. Example anonymity levels include full anonymity partial anonymity and non anonymity. The anonymity level from the anonymity selector may be stored in the anonymity level field .

The interacting user may include one or more attachment files to the question using the attachment selector or may omit including attachment files. The attachment files may be uploaded from the client device a network server or another computer system to which the interacting user profile has access. In one embodiment the number of attachment files is limited to five but in an alternate embodiment there is a different limit or no limit on attachment files. The interacting user may select the social network option to cross post the question to another social networking site e.g. LINKEDIN FACEBOOK GOOGLE PLUS . The interacting user may use the submission buttons when the previously described fields are filled. The clear button allows a user to leave the question interface without submitting entered information. The preview button may be used to see a prepublication version of the question. The submit button publishes the question for viewing by user profiles of the default network computing system. Use of the submit button may store information entered to the question interface in the interaction store .

Referring to illustrated is an example user interface for controlling privacy and access to a data item in the default network computing system. The interaction privacy interface includes a privacy selector an anonymity selector and a social network option . The interaction privacy interface may be used for choosing privacy and anonymity levels to apply to a data item e.g. an excerpted content item a question a request a referral a discussion an answer .

The interacting user may choose a privacy setting from the privacy selector which controls which user profiles may see the item. Example privacy settings include everyone connections only default network and invite only e.g. the interacting user chooses one or more particular user profiles that may view the item . In an alternate embodiment privacy settings may include colleagues. The privacy setting from the privacy selector may be stored in the visibility level field . The interacting user may choose an anonymity level from the anonymity selector which controls what identifying information from the interacting user profile is associated with the item. Example anonymity levels include full anonymity partial anonymity and non anonymity. The anonymity level from the anonymity selector may be stored in the anonymity level field . The interacting user may select the social network option to cross post the item to another social networking site e.g. LINKEDIN FACEBOOK GOOGLE PLUS .

The disclosed embodiments beneficially allow for discretely interacting in a default social networking environment. Users may ensure that data items are viewed by users with the rights to use them. For example if an interaction relates to a confidential internal memorandum a user may choose privacy settings granting access to user profiles having the same company listed as the uploading user profile. Additionally users may guard their identities in situations where non anonymity may be inappropriate or risky. For example professionals from different companies may informally discuss a matter in anonymity without fear of professional liability for giving advice without insufficient information or a formal relationship. Combining these anonymity and privacy features to the default network features enables users to interact discretely with others having similar occupations that they may not have met through traditional networking channels.

Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter herein.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms for example as illustrated in . Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors e.g. processor that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. application program interfaces APIs . 

The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be located in a single geographic location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm . In other example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be distributed across a number of geographic locations.

Some portions of this specification are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on data stored as bits or binary digital signals within a machine memory e.g. a computer memory . These algorithms or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. As used herein an algorithm is a self consistent sequence of operations or similar processing leading to a desired result. In this context algorithms and operations involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically but not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored accessed transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated by a machine. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals using words such as data content bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. These words however are merely convenient labels and are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities.

Unless specifically stated otherwise discussions herein using words such as processing computing calculating determining presenting displaying or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine e.g. a computer that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic magnetic or optical quantities within one or more memories e.g. volatile memory non volatile memory or a combination thereof registers or other machine components that receive store transmit or display information.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. For example some embodiments may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the invention. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

Upon reading this disclosure those of skill in the art will appreciate still additional alternative structural and functional designs for a system and a process for controlling access to content in a default network based on user attributes through the disclosed principles herein. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein. Various modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope defined in the appended claims.

