---

title: Delamination and crack prevention layer for structural sandwich panels
abstract: A method of manufacturing a delamination and crack prevention layer (DCPL) is provided for use in laminated sandwich panels. The DCPL is formed by using a continuous rolling process and by cutting finger profiles. Each finger forms a beam extending outward at a desired angle from a DCPL plane. The upper and lower DCPL planes are aligned to provide a uniform distribution of fingers along a length of the DCPL. Face sheets are bonded to the outer DCPL planes. Foam infusers add foam between the DCPL planes and among the fingers. The foam is rigidified (cured) during a continuous roll-form process. The DCPL prevents propagation of delamination between adjacent face sheets and core layers as well as arresting cracks in the core layers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09517614&OS=09517614&RS=09517614
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09517614
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141121
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention is a method for producing a delamination and crack prevention layer that can be used to enhance damage tolerance levels in laminated sandwich panels.

Laminated sandwich panels are characterized by a comparatively low weight exceptional planar and bending strength and stiffness properties. However the laminated sandwich panels often lack a through thickness tension compression strengths and stiffness levels that are found in plates formed from conventional homogenous materials. The through thickness stresses often referred to as weak direction stresses are the transverse normal stress and the transverse shear stresses . These stresses are identified in the boxes displayed in .

Structural sandwich panels subject to mechanical or thermal loads will develop stresses in the face sheets face sheet to core bond layers and in the core layer s . These stresses can lead to failure initiation. If stress levels become sufficiently high cracks can propagate along planes that are parallel normal and oblique to a neutral surface of the panel. When high strength thermoset polymers i.e. epoxies are used as face sheet to core bonding material the available fracture toughness i.e. the ability to resist plastic deformation and crack growth is generally insufficient at high stress levels.

This insufficiency allows cracks to propagate with repeated load cycles at a stable or possibly unstable rate. Once sufficient crack propagation has occurred a face sheet can delaminate from the core thereby causing strain energy to be released stiffness to be reduced and the load carrying capacity to diminish.

No crack arresting boundaries are present in . The placement of delamination and crack arresting boundaries is analogous to the operation of rip stop fabrics whereby tears are prevented from propagating across cells formed by the grid like placement of rip stop higher strength yarns.

In the prior art Miller U.S. Pat. No. 7 972 698 describes a series of continuous reinforcing fibers fiberglass carbon etc. disposed at different angles to strengthen foam cores of a sandwich panel and intended for use with vacuum bagging resin transfer molding RTM vacuum assisted resin transfer molding VARTM and other resin infusion methods. The Miller reference requires structural continuity of the reinforcing fibers between the faces of the core and optionally through the skins which can produce electrical conductivity between skins. This electrical conductivity can be an undesirable characteristic for structures especially those structures requiring EMI hardening. Also the reinforcing fibers of the cited reference provide increased panel strength and stiffness at the expense of increased weight.

The Miller reference further requires continuity of the reinforcing fibers between skins such that during resin infusion the reinforcements become tensioned and are then capable of resisting motions and maintaining positional alignment and uniformity within the foam core. If the core reinforcing fibers were made to be discontinuous the fibers would become segmented and cantilevered.

Prior to the resin infusion process the core reinforcing fibers are not rigidified and therefore would 1 lack bending stiffness to resist movement resulting from lateral pressure applied during the resin infusion process and 2 would be unable to maintain an intended alignment positional uniformity and directional stiffness enhancements for the overall panel. Use of the cited reference results in a sandwich panel having a comparatively greater areal weight density. As such the reference does not provide an optimal solution for sandwich panels requiring less weight.

The Miller reference further requires that multiple foam core strips attached webs inner skins and fiber reinforcements be positioned together and then infused with a flowable adhesive resin to rigidify the assembly during the molding process. The process requires several labor intensive pre assembly non continuous steps cutting foam strips and webs to pre determined lengths wrapping the foam strips with fibrous outer layers stitching fiber reinforcements through the rigid foam strips and continuous assembly steps adding inner and outer skin layers followed by an adhesive resin infusion step and a pressurization step .

Sandwich panels are highly engineered structural systems. To achieve their peak load carrying capacities and damage tolerance levels all components of these layered systems must remain functional throughout the loading event. Otherwise damage will develop and structural integrity will be compromised. As such there is a need to minimize the effects of through thickness normal stresses and both transverse and in plane stresses. There is also a need to prevent face sheet and face sheet to core delamination and to provide crack arresting boundaries.

The method of the present invention provides a delamination and crack prevention layer DCPL that can be used to improve toughness and damage tolerance levels in laminated sandwich panels. The DCPL is formed by using a continuous rolling process on a thin layer of metal or other formable material. The process forms fingers by cutting profiles that define each finger. Each finger forms a cantilever beam with a free end extending outward from a DCPL plane to right angles. Once bent the fingers remain connected to the DCPL plane.

The continuous manufacturing process aligns upper and lower DCPL planes in a vertical placement to provide a uniform distribution of fingers along a length of the DCPL. Face sheets are then bonded to the outer DCPL planes. Foam infusers add foam between the DCPL planes and among the fingers. The foam expands to fill an inner panel volume as well as an open void region of the DCPL. This expansion maximizes the structural reinforcement provided by the DCPL. The foam is rigidified cured during a continuous roll form process. Compression rollers maintain a required panel thickness during the curing. For thermal efficiency and electrical isolation fingers of the upper DCPL do not contact the lower DCPL.

The present invention describes a fully continuous roll form manufacturing process using rolls of skin materials rolls of damage tolerant formable element layers and liquid foam injection methods to produce lightweight sandwich panels having enhanced overall damage tolerance.

An advantage of the present invention is that the load carrying capacity and fatigue life of a lightweight sandwich structure can be enhanced while decreasing sensitivity to material and manufacturing defects. The DCPL prevents propagation of delaminations between adjacent face sheets and core layers as well as arresting cracks in the core layers. Core materials include metal plastic composites wood etc. The face sheets or skin layers can be metal for example aluminum titanium steel ceramic textile matrix reinforced composite fiberglass carbon Kevlar plastic thermoset thermoplastic wood or any generally considered structural material. Another purpose of the present invention is to develop a continuous manufacturing method for producing laminated sandwich panels that incorporate one or more DCPLs.

Referring again to the figures a process of manufacturing a representative delamination and crack prevention layer DCPL is shown in . The DCPL as shown in is formed by using a continuous rolling process on a thin layer of metal or other formable material. The rolling or stamping process by finger profile cutting rollers and finger forming rollers forms fingers of controllable geometry and placement by cutting profiles defining each finger.

The cutting rollers simply cut outlines of the fingers as indicated by the dashed lines of within the plane of the DCPL . The outline cuts are made on the edges of the fingers except for a neck region of the fingers. The neck regions are the remaining ligaments connecting the fingers to the DCPL as shown in the right most region of each finger illustrated in .

The neck regions are then deformed by the finger forming rollers . The forming rollers bend the fingers away from a DCPL plane to an out of normal or other specified angle position. The finger cutting rollers and the finger forming rollers are preferably manufactured from hardened steel or other suitable materials having high wear resistance and registered for tracking purposes to maintain relative alignment during a complete finger cutting and forming process. An alternative to the finger cutting rollers is the use of lasers to cut the finger outlines.

As shown in each finger forms a cantilever beam with a free end extending outward from a DCPL plane X X plane to right angles or other desired angles . The thickness of the fingers is directly related to the thickness of the DCPL . Proper selection of a thickness of the DCPL is dependent on the magnitude of stress components shown in and the fracture behavior of the core i.e. the critical strain energy release rate etc. .

As shown in it is notable that once bent the fingers remain connected to the DCPL plane along a single ligament or neck defined by line A A. The connection is simply the only uncut portion of the outline of the finger formed by the finger cutting rollers but now in a bent position. The fingers can be optimized for a variety of densities number of fingers attached per DCPL plane shapes and lengths including variations of shapes and lengths within a single DCPL . The cross sections of a finger may be formed in almost any cross section. As shown in a finger can be a cupped configuration See for equipment that could cup a finger or in a twisted configuration for increased pull out and shear strength See for equipment that could twist a finger . A perforated configuration is shown in See for equipment that could perforate a finger .

As shown in the continuous manufacturing process next aligns the separately formed upper and lower DCPL planes in a proper vertical placement. The deposed angle of the fingers with respect to the DCPL plane is controlled by the finger forming rollers . The shaping of cam portions of the finger forming rollers is designed to bend the fingers to the required angles.

In both DCPL planes combine to provide a uniform distribution of fingers along the length of the DCPL . Face sheets are then bonded to the outer DCPL plane with types of bonding methods known to those ordinarily skilled in the art.

In the manufacturing process employs foam infusers to add foam between the DCPL planes and among the fingers . The foam is supplied in liquid form between the DCPL planes and rigidified cured during the continuous roll form process. Compression rollers maintain a required panel thickness during the curing of the foam .

As shown in for a DCPL with an infused foam cores and honeycomb infused foam cores the foam expands to completely fill an inner panel volume as well as an open void region of the DCPL from which the fingers are bent away i.e. plane X X . This expansion of the foam eliminates voids and maximizes the structural reinforcements provided by the DCPL .

The absence of an infused foam core a solid or honeycomb core can be bonded to the face sheets using liquid or film adhesives which will fill the void regions in the DCPL . Optionally the invention can be used for a single DCPL plane . For thermal efficiency and electrical isolation the fingers of the upper DCPL do not contact the lower DCPL. Similarly the fingers of the lower DCPL should not contact the upper DCPL for a situation in which the fingers and DCPLs are constructed of conductive material.

As shown in the present invention does not restrict the DCPL to be the closest neighboring layer to the core. The invention allows the DCPL to penetrate through penetrable face sheets i.e. woven composite fabrics etc and into the DCPL planes . For face sheets constructed from fabrics composite wood and other thin materials the fingers can be designed to perforate the face sheets. This capability allows the DCPL planes to be outwardly positioned from and to capture such face sheets so as to provide interlaminar and transverse normal delamination protections between the face sheets.

The DCPL plane can optionally be removed as demonstrated in . If the DCPL plane is a metal material a rotary cutting tool or translating saw blade can be used. If the DCPL plane is a plastic material a hot knife or wire can be used.

As noted for provides a manufacturing process for developing specialized fingers. In the figure a stationary mandrel is added beneath the DCPL plane and the forming rollers . Specialized finger cutting rollers are used to form a cupped finger See cutting roller of a twisted finger See cutting roller of and a perforated finger See cutting roller of .

The present invention intentionally does not provide continuity of the reinforcing fingers across the faces of the core or across the face sheets. The fingers are discontinuous cantilevered and have sufficient bending stiffness to resist pressure during infusion of the foam. While the infusion process induces pressure within a core region the pressure is distributed on all faces of the fingers such that a net bending force is zero.

An advantage of the present invention is the capability to increase damage tolerance by 1 arresting core cracks 2 arresting skin to core bond layer delaminations and in the case of laminated skins 3 arresting interlaminar delaminations between plies with other skins. As cracks initiate and begin to propagate within the core a crack front advances until the crack reaches a finger . Because there is a material mismatch at the finger to core interface crack propagation is arrested. The fingers act as substantive barriers thus preventing further growth of cracks. The spatial density of the fingers dictate the largest crack that can be developed with a core.

The present invention does not increase the panel bending stiffness while the prior art does increase the panel bending stiffness with the result of increased areal weight densities. Also the present invention does not require an adhesive resin rather the invention employs a liquid foam. The liquid foam provides a bonding agent between the skin core interface and the reinforcing fingers core interface.

The present invention describes a fully continuous roll form manufacturing process using rolls of skin materials rolls of damage tolerant formable element layers and liquid foam injection methods to produce ultra lightweight sandwich panels having enhanced overall damage tolerance. In contrast the prior art Miller reference provides for an optionally stronger and stiffer core than that of the present invention for sandwich panels having identical skins and foam core materials however the reference does so at the expense of increased weight material and manufacturing costs.

Strength and damage tolerance mean two different things. Strength is the ability to support loads. Damage tolerance is the ability to function structurally in the presence of existing defects arising from manufacturing or damage from in service use. A comparison of the invention and the Miller reference should consider the pure bending strength to weight ratios bending stiffness to weight ratios material and manufacturing costs.

It will be understood that many additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

