---

title: Fast method for wideband spectrum sensing
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention relate cognitive radar and RF technologies, and more particularly, to spectrum sensing processing for rapidly monitoring the RF spectrum for channel availability and activity. The goal is to find and use unoccupied RF channels to broadcast and receive information. According to one embodiment, a method for analyzing a received RF signal to determine unused channels, or frequencies, therein, comprises: analyzing a received RF signal to determine anchor points that represent high energy frequency locations; calculating distances between the determined anchor points; identifying and eliminating clusters or isolated anchor points defined as a high energy region of interference based on the calculated distances; and selecting at least one remaining unoccupied frequency for transmitting or receiving a RF signal. The method may further include performing an optional quality or risk assessment on remaining frequencies of the waveform, and eliminating high risk frequencies from consideration in some instances.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09635508&OS=09635508&RS=09635508
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09635508
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140807
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 927 187 filed Jan. 14 2014 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Governmental Interest The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government.

This application generally relates cognitive radar and radio RF technologies and more particularly to spectrum sensing processing for rapidly monitoring the RF spectrum for channel availability and activity.

It is desirable that RF systems operate without interfering with one other. Cognitive radar radio systems can be configured dynamically so as to use the best channels in its vicinity to minimize interference. Spectrum sensing is a technique employed by cognitive radio and radar to monitor the RF spectrum for channel availability and the activity of the primary user i.e. the licensed user. It is a highly valued asset to increase spectrum utilization for cognitive radar and radio. Spectrum utilization is a key issue for radars and radios due to cluttered electromagnetic environments EME i.e. a growing problem for ground based and airborne radar systems that need to operate simultaneously without interfering with other radar communication and electronic warfare systems.

Several known multiband energy detection techniques exist for spectrum sensing include 1 strategies to reduce computational complexity and minimize spectral leakage and 2 multiband joint detection techniques that simultaneously detect signal energy over multiple non overlapping channels. These techniques however only consider the energy at a single frequency and do not consider the surrounding energy near a frequency.

This problem is becoming more critical as the frequency spectrum available for radars and radios shrinks due to growing wireless communication device usage and spectrum management regulations And this problem is further exacerbated for radar by the growing number of targets of interest TOI whose radar response can vary greatly with frequency radars thus must adapt to these TOIs while utilizing unoccupied frequency bands.

Embodiments of the present invention relate cognitive radar and RF technologies and more particularly to spectrum sensing processing for rapidly monitoring the RF spectrum for channel availability and activity. The goal of the processing is to find and use unoccupied RF channels to broadcast and receive information. This technology addresses current RF and radar system challenges posed by increasingly cluttered EME.

According to one embodiment a method for analyzing a received RF signal to determine unused channels or frequencies therein comprises analyzing a received RF signal to determine anchor points that represent high energy frequency locations calculating distances between the determined anchor points identifying and eliminating clusters or isolated anchor points defined as a high energy region of interference based on the calculated distances and selecting at least one remaining unoccupied frequency for transmitting or receiving a RF signal.

The method may be executed such that i any unused determined frequency is substantially devoid of noise and or ii the surrounding energy of the unused determined frequency is minimal. Prior to determining anchor points i time domain data of the received RF signal is converted to the frequency domain via the fast Fourier transform FFT and ii energy estimates are determined for the frequency domain samples. Anchor points may be determined using a binary hypothesis test in some embodiments.

The method may further include performing a quality or risk assessment on remaining frequencies. Risk can be assessed by defining a guard band to provide a buffer for anticipated sidelode interference from the edge of an adjacent eliminated cluster or isolated anchor points sufficient and determining if power levels in the guard band are above or below a threshold determining if power levels at or near the edge of an adjacent eliminated cluster or isolated anchor point is above or below a threshold determining if the average power level for unoccupied frequencies is above or below a threshold determining if the bandwidth between adjacent eliminated clusters or isolated anchor points is above or below a threshold or any combination thereof. Those remaining frequencies with a high risk assessment may be eliminated from consideration. And any remaining frequency having a minimal risk assessment may be preferably selected. The overall computational complexity of the entire method may preferably be of order O N .

According to another embodiment a system for analyzing a received RF signal to determine unused channels or frequencies therein has at least one processor and one or more modules executable by the at least one processor and comprises a fast spectrum sensing module configured to execute the method for processing a received RF signal to determine unused channels or frequencies. Additionally the system may further comprise a front end module configured to process a received RF signal an analog digital converter ADC configured to digitize the processed signal a discrete Fourier transform DFT module configured to transform the digitized signal into a set of frequency domain samples and an estimate power module configured to estimate the power of the signal at various frequencies.

According to yet another embodiment a computer readable storage medium having computer readable instructions that when executed by a processor implement the method for analyzing a received RF signal to determine unused channels or frequencies.

A unique and innovative fast spectrum sensing methodology is disclosed for radar and radio applications. The methodology includes analyzing RF signals and selecting unused channels or frequencies within a wide frequency band of interest. This method quickly determines and eliminates high power regions from further consideration. Processing requires use of anchor points to identify high power regions for elimination. Then an optional risk assessment may be performed on noisy nearby frequencies for further elimination since high power interference could leak into a potential unused frequency over time. The remaining unused frequencies can serve as potential transmission and or reception frequencies for RF signals.

Two criteria may be used to select an unused frequency according to the method 1 the unused frequency should be substantially devoid of noise and 2 the surrounding power of the unused frequency should be minimal. These criteria are general for both radar and radio applications for suitable operation of the radar radio. Actual values for these criteria would be linked to a particular system and method of operation and are not limiting. The innovative fast spectrum sensing methodology described herein is based on an energy detection paradigm. The first criterion is important since reception by the cognitive radar or radio at frequencies occupied by a primary user or noise interference decreases the signal to noise ratio SNR receptions at these frequencies must be avoided. The second criterion is important since high power interference from neighboring frequencies may leak into a potential unused frequency over time.

To select unused frequencies within a wide frequency band the method analyzes one or more RF signals to identify and eliminate regions or clusters of high power. The RF signals are received by at least one antenna which may be any general RF antenna. The computational complexity of this method is significantly less than that of conventional methods thereby improving the efficiency and effectiveness of spectrum sensing processing.

One or more RF signals are received by one or more antennas e.g. antenna illustrated in . Typically RF signals originate from multiple sources at different locations and over many frequencies. The system may use multiple antennas to receive multiple ambient signals the different sources and then combine the received signals in some way into an input RF signal such as with a multiplexer or similar device. The input RF signal is an electronic signal or waveform. The antennas might be directional omni directional or some combination thereof. It may be possible to limit the input RF signal to a smaller range or band of frequencies of interest with filtering for instance.

The generalized approach of method analyzes the input RF signal by estimating the power spectrum. While the input RF signal is in the time domain it preferably is converted to the frequency domain for processing and analyses. The method analyzes the input RF signal by looking at all the energy power in frequency domain to identify areas which likely will represent interference that should be avoided and find unoccupied regions which do not. The frequency range of interest is chosen based on the intended operational frequency bands where the radio radar is to operate. It is expected that interference exists within the intended operational range. Of course any exemplary operational frequencies mentioned herein are not limiting and others certainly may be received and processed according to the scope of the invention.

Prior to implementing the method the input RF signal may be pre processed such that 1 the sampled time domain data is converted to the frequency domain via the fast Fourier transform FFT and 2 power estimates are determined for the frequency domain samples. Pre processing of the received RF signal can be implemented by a fast spectrum sensing system as further discussed below. This produces a vector of the power samples X x . . . x corresponding to frequencies f f . . . f. N is the number of frequencies of interest.

The power samples are first processed in step by conducting a binary hypothesis test to determine anchor points. The anchor points represent high power frequency locations in the RF signal. These may be quantified as amounts above a preset threshold value although the preset threshold value will likely vary each application or implementation. And because of their high power anchor points and their surrounding frequencies are likely to cause interference and thus are candidates for elimination. One way anchor points may be determined is by implementing the following binary hypothesis test 

The binary hypothesis test is a well known detection technique used in statistical analysis for hypothesis testing. It is simply a threshold test. It is also widely known in the cognitive radio community for detecting frequencies whose energy is over a predetermined threshold. The noise may be white Gaussian noise approximated by a simple model used to formalize the binary hypothesis test a very commonly used model . This noise is due to ambient radiation and receiver electronics. The null hypothesis is energy below the threshold the alternative hypothesis is energy above the threshold.

In step a search for clusters of anchor points in the input RF signal is performed. Clusters are identified based on the distance between the anchor points. For example the distance between the anchor points is defined as D d d . . . d where d I I i.e. the distance between the frequency bins . A frequency bin represents the resolution of the digitized frequency information. For example if a band between 1 MHz 11 MHz is being monitored using a 1 MHz frequency resolution then there would be 10 frequency bins i.e. the first covering 1 2 MHz the second covering 2 3 MHz etc . On the other hand if the frequency resolution were 1 Hz there would be 10 million frequency bins.

A cluster contains frequency bin indices in fcorresponding to zeros in addition to the anchor point indices in I. More particularly a cluster is defined as a sequence of anchor points I I . . . I I whose distances satisfy d d . . . d where is the maximum distance needed to form a cluster and V

Next in step clusters and isolated anchor points are eliminated from the input RF signal. A cluster contains frequency bin indices in fcorresponding to zeros in addition to the anchor point indices in I. All clusters and isolated anchor points are then eliminated from f. These represent high energy regions of interference. The advantage of this technique is that multiple frequency bins including the zeros not included in I are eliminated based only on the analysis of anchor point distances not on the analysis of the power estimates that would require additional processing. This results in a low computationally complex process of order O L .

In some embodiments it may be is possible to simply eliminate these frequency bins and end the method after step . This may be suitable for some applications. However for many applications power leakage from nearby clusters and anchor points which are eliminated from the processing may present a problem. Thus it is preferred that a quality or risk assessment be performed for most embodiments.

In step a quality or risk assessment of remaining frequencies in the input RF signal is conducted and high risk frequencies are eliminated. Risk can be assessed in a variety of ways. For example a risk analysis may be executed with output ranging from 0 to 1 with a value of 1 corresponding to 100 risk and a value of 0 corresponding to 0 risk. High risk and low risk may be defined for a given application. The exact risk function is application dependent but should be chosen such that its computational complexity does not exceed O N . Thus the overall computational complexity for the entire fast spectrum sensing method becomes O N .

As illustrated in the remaining frequency bins in fform natural groups within the input RF signal. Here six groups G created by the deleted indices remain of sizes 4 2 3 2 5 and 2 respectively. The set of W groups is defined as G G . . . G where each group G is separated by the gap created by the deleted indices. The group G g . . . g G is defined as a set of Z i sequential indices. The example in indicates that G G . . . G Z 1 4 G g 1 g2 g 3 g 4 etc. These values correspond to the number of bins in the group.

The risk of each group G is next assessed and high risk frequencies are eliminated. The step is performed since it is possible that power from the anchor points can leak into frequency bin within a group over time. That is to say a leak occurs when power from a neighboring frequency bin appears at a later time in that frequency fin but is not present at the current time.

The bandwidth may be compared with a bandwidth threshold to see if it is sufficient for an application. If is it greater than the bandwidth threshold it is assigned a risk of 0 R 0 if it is less it is assigned a risk of 1 R 1 and will be eliminated. Taking this technique further the bandwidths for group may be determined in this manner and the group having the largest determined bandwidth may be selected as minimal risk.

The system includes a Front End module an analog digital converter ADC a discrete Fourier transform DFT module an Estimate Power module and a Fast Spectrum Sensing module. An RF signal is received by one or more antennas one of which is illustrated in the figure .

The received signal is processed by the analog front end module with center frequency f bandwidth B. Next the processed signal from the front end module is digitized using the ADC module with sampling frequency F and dynamic range Pto generate a resulting set of N real time domain samples as y y . . . y. The choice of the front end module may be dependent on the type of ADC module used although both are common hardware components and many choices exist .

The digitized signal is then transformed to the frequency domain in the DFT module implementing a discrete Fourier transform function. This results in a set of frequency domain samples in the fundamental band defined as . . . which correspond to the frequencies f f . . . f. The frequency resolution is defined as F F N where Fis the sampling frequency.

Next the power of the signal at various frequencies fis estimated in the Estimate Power module as x where f f. In some implementations module may be implemented in an FPGA or implemented in the CPU. These power estimates are processed by the innovative Fast Spectrum Sensing module which implements the fast spectrum sensing method .

The module may be a computer having one or more processors or micro processors as known in the art that are configured to execute the method . Processor executable instructions can be stored in a memory device and execute by the processors when needed. In some implementations software code instructions firmware or the like may be stored on a computer or machine readable storage media having computer or machine executable instructions executable by the processor s . The processor s may be a programmable processor such as for example a field programmable gate array FGPA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC processor. The methodology disclosed herein may be implemented and executed by an application may be created using any number of programming languages such as MATLAB as set forth in Appendix A of the aforementioned 187 provisional patent application. Of course any number of hardware implementations programming languages and operating platforms may be used without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. As such the description or recitation of any specific hardware implementation programming language and operating platform herein is exemplary only and should not be viewed as limiting.

The conventional method first requires that 1 the sampled time domain data is converted to the frequency domain via the fast Fourier transform FFT 2 power estimates are determined for the frequency domain samples. This processing produces the power samples X x . . . x corresponding to the frequencies f f . . . f. In its own processing the conventional method first processes the power samples in X by a single frequency power detector in step . This detector selects frequencies satisfying the null hypothesis more particularly the frequencies satisfying the null hypothesis x

The surrounding power of the samples in Y is next processed by the adjacent frequency energy AFE detector in step . The AFE detector is defined by 

where is a discrete window function with a center at l 0 M 1 is the window size and M is even. is defined as the threshold variable for the AFE detector. The samples satisfying the null hypothesis y

One key advantage of the innovative fast spectrum sensing methodology described herein as compared to this conventional method is its extremely low computational complexity. For example consider the spectrum sensing experiment conducted in aforementioned reference which discussed using the conventional method to process spectral information observed in the electromagnetic environment EME . The spectral information was recorded by an Agilent Technologies N9342CN spectrum analyzer using a SAS 230 20 omni directional antenna. The input parameters to the spectrum analyzer were resolution bandwidth of lkHz reference level of 40 dBm attenuation value of 10 dB and averaging of 5. The frequency range is chosen arbitrarily from 400 MHz to 500 MHz. The SAS 230 20 antenna was vertically polarized with a bandwidth from 20 to 1000 MHz. The gain of the antenna is 5 to 3 dBi. The processing used N 100001 M 1000 and a Hanning window function for . The Hanning window function was used to emphasize the power close to the sample under evaluation. is chosen as 1 dB above an estimate of the noise floor after the noise floor is processed by 3 .

The results for the conventional method processing indicated K 86902 samples satisfying the null hypothesis used by the single frequency energy detector. The processing of the adjacent frequency energy detector indicates P 52424 samples satisfying the null hypothesis i.e. 52424 frequencies are unused . The number of operations used by the conventional method is 2MP 174 10.

For comparison sake the same data from this previous experiment was used to evaluate the innovative fast spectrum sensing methodology according to one embodiment which utilizes the Matlab code in Appendix A of the aforementioned 187 provisional patent application with 114 dBm equal to and 501. is chosen to match the conventional processing using a Hanning window of size 1001 where M 2 due to the tapering of the window function. If the rectangular window function were used then M. The processing for this method assumes zero risk tolerance i.e. any frequency associated with 0 was disregarded. The result for the innovative fast spectrum sensing method indicates 52536 unused frequencies a result similar to that of conventional method. But the number of operations used by the innovative method is O N 100 000 a quantity of well over 1000 times less than that of the conventional method.

Related aspects have been previously disclosed by inventors including the paper by Anthony F. Martone and Kenneth Ranney titled Fast Technique for Wideband Spectrum Sensing presented at the 2014 IEEE International Symposium on Antennas and Propagation and USNC URSI Radio Science Meeting in Memphis Tenn. Jul. 6 11 2014 and the paper and presentation by Anthony Martone et al. titled Spectrum Sensing Techniques for Nonlinear Radar presented at the SPIE 2014 Conference in Baltimore Md. May 5 9 2014 which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present disclosure and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated.

Various elements devices modules and circuits are described above in associated with their respective functions. These elements devices modules and circuits are considered means for performing their respective functions as described herein.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow. All references cited above are hereby incorporated by reference herein for all purposes.

