---

title: Integrated stern bulb and flap
abstract: The invention is directed to an integrated stern bulb and flap for a water vessel, more particularly, a bulb having a main body section and a forebody section, the bulb positioned between first and second flap portions. The integrated stern bulb and flap provides improved power efficiency by reducing resistance at high speeds. The bulb of the integrated stern bulb and flap may be hollow, the interior being stowage space adding to the payload of the water vessel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09180933&OS=09180933&RS=09180933
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09180933
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140612
---
The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The following description relates generally to an integrated stern bulb and flap for a water vessel in which the bulb has a main body section and a forebody section the main body section attached to a flat transom at the stern of the water vessel the bulb positioned between first and second flap portions the integrated stern bulb and flap providing improved power efficiency by reducing resistance at high speeds. The bulb may hollow having stowage space within.

The USS Arleigh Burke DDG 51 Class destroyer represents the latest in a distinguished lineage of combatants designed and developed by the U.S. Navy. It is one of the world s finest hull forms optimizing speed power seakeeping stability and payload capacity even though its initial design dates back nearly three decades. Since the first of class DDG 51 became operational in 1991 the hydrodynamic community has unveiled numerous advances in ship technology and design. The advances are applicable not only to DDG 51 class ships but also to other large hull ship forms military and non military.

The technological improvements were developed to enhance the operational performance and or to foster reductions in operating and life cycle total ownership costs. The technological improvements include changes in propeller design the addition of bow and stern end bulbs and stem flaps and improved rudder design. Cleaning techniques for cleaning the hull and propellers have also been developed to prevent increase in power and loss of propeller efficiency.

Stern flaps are extensions of the hull bottom surface created by a relatively small appendage welded to the transom of the ship. Stern flaps are known in the art and have been proven during sea trials to reduce propulsive power and to foster significant fuel cost savings while increasing both ship endurance and top speed. The U.S. Navy has obtained several patents for stem flaps such as U.S. Pat. No. 6 038 995 U.S. Pat. No. 6 698 370 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 745 715. A stern flap based on U.S. Pat. No. 6 038 995 which could be retrofitted behind the transom wedge was successfully installed on all 28 Flight I and II hulls DDG 51 through DDG 78.

Regarding the stern end bulbs it is acknowledged that a ship moving in water generally creates a much larger bow wave than a stern wave. Thus the most logical location for a bulb is at the bow because the large energy content in the bow wave is a potential source of more recoverable energy. Nevertheless the stern end of the ship also generates waves that are a source of wasted energy. In contrast to the plethora of technical reports on bow bulb design and their universal and widespread usage at sea there are only a few dozen technical reports and rare full scale applications of stern end bulbs. In order to be employed it is desired that the stern end bulb design overcomes already enhanced performance with the existing stern flap.

Both stern flaps and stern end bulbs interact with the hull to produce a wave system that reduces the total wave resistance. In addition the stern flap also reduces after body resistance. For either body to be effective the drag reduction due to interactions with the hull resistance must be greater than the inherent drag of the device itself. The authors of this patent application have illustrated stern bulb flap combinations conceptually in non patent literature presentations Hydrodynamic Energy saving Enhancements for DDG 51 Class Ships and Stern End Bulb for Energy Enhancement and Speed Improvement . Apart from these conceptual illustrations there is no prior art teaching of a stern end bulb and flap combination that is properly constructed to achieve the goals of reducing resistance on the hull whilst avoiding the adverse effects of its structure.

In addition to improving the ship efficiencies as it relates to fuel consumption it is also important to maintain efficiency while performing other mission related tasks. The USS Arleigh Burke DDG 51 Class destroyer or other water vessels may perform other tasks related to monitoring the environment. This may involve the use of monitoring devices including but not limited to unmanned surface vehicles USVs unmanned underwater vehicles UUVs or towed arrays. The deploying of these sea monitoring devices and in the case of USVs and UUVs the launching and recovering creates technical challenges that must be met. Some techniques for deployment may involve the use of davits or other lifting apparatuses for lifting the monitoring devices from the deck of the water vessel into the water below. Ramps may also be employed for lowering the monitoring devices into the water.

For more direct access to the water some water vessels employ sea level openings in their hulls through which the monitoring devices such as USVs and UUVs may be passed. As stated above the USS Arleigh Burke DDG 51 Class destroyer has one of the world s finest hull forms optimizing speed power seakeeping stability and payload capacity. Consequently the addition of openings or penetrations to the hull structure may have adverse effects on vessel performance. Thus it is desired to have a sea level opening for launching and or recovering monitoring devices that do not penetrate the hull or have adverse effects on vessel performance.

In one aspect the invention is a water vessel having improved power efficiency. The water vessel includes a hull having a bow and a stern. The stern has a flat transom that is bordered by a bottom edge a top edge a first side edge and a second side edge. The hull has an undersurface defining the bottom surface of the hull. The water vessel also includes an integrated stern bulb and flap having a first flap portion angled downwards at an angle a second flap portion angled downwards at said angle and a dual use bulb. In this aspect the dual use bulb has a main body section wherein the main body section is hollow and has a storage space within. The main body section is attached to the flat transom. The dual use bulb also has a forebody section wherein the forebody section is attached to the undersurface of the hull the bulb positioned between and connected to each of the first flap portion and the second flap portion. Each of the first flap portion and the second flap portion is positioned along the bottom edge of the flat transom. The main body section of the bulb comprises a top surface and a bottom surface wherein the bottom surface is substantially U shaped and extends substantially horizontally away from the stern in a rearward horizontal direction X and the top surface is substantially flat and extends downwards at an angle to the horizontal.

In another aspect the invention is an at sea monitoring system having one or more monitoring devices. In this aspect the system includes a water vessel having improved power efficiency. The water vessel has a hull with a bow and a stern wherein the stern comprises a flat transom. The flat transom is bordered by a bottom edge a top edge a first side edge and a second side edge. The hull also has an undersurface defining the bottom surface of the hull. The water vessel has an integrated stern bulb and flap having a first flap portion angled downwards at an angle a second flap portion angled downwards at said angle and a dual use bulb. The dual use bulb has a main body section wherein the main body section is hollow and has a storage space within for storing the one or more monitoring devices. The main body section is attached to the flat transom. The dual use bulb also has a forebody section wherein the forebody section is attached to the undersurface of the hull. The bulb is positioned between and connected to each of the first flap portion and the second flap portion wherein each of the first flap portion and the second flap portion is positioned along the bottom edge of the flat transom. The main body section of the bulb has a top surface and a bottom surface wherein the bottom surface is substantially U shaped and extends substantially horizontally away from the stern in a rearward horizontal direction X and the top surface is substantially flat and extends downwards at an angle to the horizontal.

As shown in and as outlined below the water vessel includes an integrated stern bulb and flap which improves the power efficiency of the water vessel . The integrated stern bulb and flap is attached to the flat transom at the stem . As outlined below in greater detail shows the integrated stem bulb and flap having a first flap portion and a second flap portion . The integrated stern bulb and flap also includes a dual use bulb .

As shown the dual use bulb is positioned centrally on the flat transom between the first side edge and the second side edge . The dual use bulb is flanked on one side by the first flap portion and on the other side by the second flap portion . As shown the first flap portion and the second flap portion are both positioned along the bottom edge of the flat transom .

As outlined below when the water vessel is travelling at advanced speeds the forebody section is the portion of the integrated stern bulb and flap that makes initial contact with and directs the downstream flow to the first and second flap portions and and to the main body section . The course of this flow improves the hydrodynamics of the water vessel and provides energy savings. The forebody section view BB as shown causes the initial redirecting of the do stream flow. This conical shape of the forebody is shown in . The forebody section continues seamlessly into the lower portion of the main body section which has a substantially U shaped bottom surface as shown in . also shows the main body section having a top surface is substantially flat and extends downwards at an angle to the horizontal.

Returning to the shape and dimensions of the main body section and the first and second flap portions are more dearly shown. shows the substantially U shaped bottom surface as well as the flat top surface . also shows a flat face at a rearward end of the dual use bulb the flat face extending substantially vertically from the bottom surface to the top surface of the bulb . As outlined below according to an embodiment of the invention the dual use bulb may be hollow i.e. both the forebody section and the main body section . The hollow interior particularly the main body section may be used as stowage space. Also outlined below according to an embodiment the main body section may include a lid not shown located on either the flat top surface or the flat face at the rearward end of the bulb to provide access to the hollow interior.

As stated above when the water vessel is travelling at advanced speeds the forebody section is the portion of the integrated stern bulb and flap that makes initial contact with and directs the downstream flow to the first and second flap portions and and to the main body section . The course of this flow improves the hydrodynamics of the water vessel and provides energy savings. is an exemplary explanatory illustration of the downstream flow at the stern of the water vessel and particularly the flow as directed by the integrated stern bulb and flap . According to the this embodiment the water vessel is a DDG 51 the bulb length Bis about 24 ft. the bulb width Bof about 8 ft. Each of the first and second flap portions have flap widths Fof about 8 ft and are angled downwards at an of about 15 .

In the explanatory illustration the water vessel is travelling at a high velocity V as shown. According to the illustration the velocity V may be about 16 knots to about 30 knots. As shown the flow F moves opposite to the velocity V. The F is made up of flow particles f which is streamlined as shown. The particles f initially contact the forebody section of the bulb . From the forebody section the flow is directed to the main body section of the bulb and flows generally about the substantially U shaped bottom surface . also shows sectional view CC through C C representing a slice through the main body section showing the flow F at bout the substantially U shaped bottom surface . The flow is maintained below the waterline which coincides with the level at which the hull floats in open water. As shown the waterline is about halfway up the main body section .

The graph of shows the Effective Horsepower EHP for flap line which is representative of a water vessel using only a stern end flap. also shows the EHP for the integrated stern end bulb and flap. As shown there is significant power savings for the integrated stern end bulb and flap as compared to using the flap only when the water vessel travels from about 16 knots to about 30 knots.

In addition to improving the ship efficiencies as it relates to power consumption it is also important to maintain efficiency while performing other mission related tasks. Water vessels may be employed to perform tasks related to monitoring the environment in the process utilizing one or more monitoring devices. These one or more monitoring devices may include for example unmanned vehicles such as USVs and UUVs or towed arrays. There are efficiencies related to the deployment of these monitoring devices. For example in the case of USVs the recovery of a smaller vessel is accomplished by driving the smaller vessel alongside a stationary parent ship and lifting the smaller vessel by davit into the parent ship. Alternatively the USV may be driven up a ramp into the water vessel. Openings in the hull which create hydrodynamic inefficiencies may also be used to deploy smaller vessels. is a schematic illustration of an at sea monitoring system that improves efficiencies related to the deployment or recovery of monitoring devices avoiding the pitfalls outlined above.

As shown schematically illustrates an at sea monitoring system including the improved power efficiency water vessel as well as one or more monitoring devices . As outlined above the water vessel includes an integrated stern end bulb and flap which is responsible for improving the efficiency of the water vessel. The bulb of the integrated stern end bulb and flap has a hollow interior which may be used for storing and deploying the one or more monitoring devices improving the efficiency of monitoring operations and also improving the payload of the water vessel . As stated above the main body section of the bulb may include a lid located on either the flat top surface or the flat face at the rearward end of the bulb to provide access to the hollow interior allowing the deployment and recovery of the one or more monitoring devices . With this arrangement there is no need to launch or recover the one or more monitoring devices from the main deck of the water vessel .

As outlined the bulb may include a lid on either the flat top surface or the flat face . Surfaces and are preferred because generally these surfaces do not affect the hydrodynamic flow of the water vessel . A lid may be employed at the flat top surface if the one or more monitoring devices are merely stored in the within bulb . According to this embodiment the lid may be hinged at a higher end of the sloped surface at so that the closing of the lid is gravity assisted. For launching and recovery operations it is preferred to position the lid at the surface at the rear. As shown according to this embodiment the lid may be hinged at the bottom end of the platform so that the lid opens downwards and acts as an extension of the platform facilitating launching and recovery operations.

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

