---

title: Controlled use medical application
abstract: Various systems, machine-readable media, and methods for controlled use of medical applications using virtualization are described herein. In various embodiments, a virtualized medical application container can be created, including creating an image of a clean version of an operating system, installing a medical application on the image, and initializing the medical application on the image. Various embodiments include receiving an indication of a request for metered use of the medical application; requesting permission for metered use of the medical application, wherein the metered use includes at least one of a single use, a defined number of uses, unlimited use, or timed use; executing at least a portion of the medical application; and controlling usage of the medical application to comply with at least one of medical informatics standards and medical informatics regulations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09659186&OS=09659186&RS=09659186
owner: Schwegman, Lundberg & Woessner, P.A
number: 09659186
owner_city: Minneapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141014
---
This application claims the benefit of priority to and is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 697 152 filed Jan. 29 2010 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 893 120 on Nov. 18 2014 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

A large number and variety of software based medical applications have been developed by academic and commercial entities for use in a variety of areas in the medical field including patient diagnostics results reporting treatment planning post procedure follow up and clinical operations. Medical applications can among other things provide immediate or convenient access to laboratory or imaging tests provide evidence based clinical decision making tools or address operational efficiencies in healthcare by reducing paperwork or providing logistical support.

For example information used by a clinician or a specialist for a patient evaluation or consultation is often based on data from one or more prior consultations or from one or more previous diagnostic tests. However in certain examples data collected from one clinician or medical system can be incompatible or incomplete for use by another clinician or medical system. In these examples the patient could benefit if additional data could be used across different settings in healthcare organizations. Healthcare informatics attempts to deal with this and other problems by merging information science computer science and health care to optimize among other things the acquisition storage retrieval display or use of information in healthcare or biomedicine.

In an example data from a first medical system can be formatted for use by a second medical system. However creating specific ad hoc interfaces for each combination of medical systems is largely impractical and a poor solution. Accordingly medical standards pertaining to the collection manipulation or transmission of healthcare information have been developed to improve interoperability between disparate medical systems.

Medical applications typically provide support for at least one medical standard. In certain examples the support can include an interface for sending or receiving medical data according to one or more applicable medical standard. Examples of medical standards include Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine DICOM or Health Level Seven HL7 Integrated Healthcare Enterprise IHE among others.

For example DICOM is a standard for handling storing printing or transmitting information in medical imaging. In certain examples DICOM includes a file and data format definition for medical imaging objects and a network communications and exchange protocol. The communication protocol can include an application protocol that uses TCP IP to communicate between systems. DICOM files can be exchanged between entities capable of receiving image and patient data in DICOM format.

HL7 is an organization involved in the development of international healthcare standards. The name HL7 is a reference to the seventh application layer of the Open System Interconnection OSI model the highest level where applications communicate with each other. HL7 version 2 defines a series of electronic messages to support administrative logistical financial as well as clinical processes. HL7 version 2 has been updated regularly since 1987 resulting in versions 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.3.1 2.4 2.5 2.5.1 and 2.6. Collectively these versions are known as HL7 version 2.x. Each HL7 v2.x standard is backwards compatible e.g. a message based on HL7 v2.3 is understood by an application that supports HL7 v2.6 . HL7 v2.x uses a textual non XML encoding syntax based on delimiters and can allow interoperability between different electronic healthcare systems such as Patient Administration Systems PAS Electronic Practice Management EPM systems Laboratory Information Systems LIS Dietary Pharmacy and Billing systems or Electronic Medical Record EMR or Electronic Health Record EHR systems.

Other examples of medical standards include Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise IHE The International Classification of Diseases 9Revision ICD 9 or Continuing Professional Education CPE .

In addition to supporting medical standards all commercialized medical applications used in the United States are regulated by the US Food and Drug Administration FDA under medical device guidelines as set by federal regulations such as 21 C.F.R. 820 2009 . Similar regulatory bodies exist for the development and marketing of medical device products in other markets including countries of the European Union e.g. UK Germany France Netherlands Spain Belgium Portugal and Czech Republic Japan India China South Korea Australia and New Zealand. These guidelines are intended to require medical application vendors to implement a quality control system and processes that includes product development e.g. design controls labeling and proper investigation and handling of defects e.g. complaints corrective action preventative action etc. .

Many US and foreign regulatory bodies also endorse other quality standards such as ISO 13485 ANSI AAMI HE74 2001 ANSI AAMI ISO 14971 ASTM E1384 07 ASTM E1578 FDA General Principles of Software Validation Final Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff IEC 60601 1 1 IEC 62304 ISO 9001 2008 ISO IEC 12207 2008 ISO IEC 15026 ISO IEC 15288 2008 ISO IEC 27002 2005 ISO IEC 90003 ISO 9001 200 etc. Many quality standards require that medical applications be tested and validated for their intended use and that the medical applications be free of defects that can cause harm to patients in their use. In certain examples compliance is required for both pre market and post market approved products. For example if a product regulated by the FDA has a defect then the FDA can order the vendor to fix the problem or the FDA can order the vendor to recall the product and curtail imports until the defect is fixed.

Conventional medical applications are structured in several ways. In a first example the conventional medical application can be provided as a stand alone hardware or software product for installation on a client computer at a healthcare site. In this example the medical application as an executable .exe or a set of dynamically linked libraries .dll is installed on a dedicated general purpose operating system e.g. Linux Microsoft WindowsXP Microsoft Windows 7 IBM Advanced Interactive eXecutive AIX etc. running on the client computer and interfacing directly with resources e.g. a physical network interface of the client computer. Installation begins with a computer having a general purpose operating system. To build the medical application a medical application installation process es moves files from the installation environment to the disk storage system of the computer system. In addition the installer processes normally builds a database management system e.g. Microsoft SQL Server Oracle PostgreSQL Postgres MySQL or others and initializes the database management system using SQL build statements typically inserting schema configuration or customer specific data. In certain examples the install process can also make registry entries or modifications through either regedit or direct editing and replacement of registration entries. When the installation is complete the system can be tested as a part of the quality assurance and control processes. The environment provided by the client application or any medical standard parameters e.g. DICOM Application Entity Titles TCP IP addresses and ports DICOM parameters etc. can be configured prior to use.

In a second example the conventional medical application can be provided for use in a client server architecture. In this example a portion of the medical application is installed on a dedicated general purpose operating system e.g. Linux Microsoft Windows Server IBM AIX etc. with server management software e.g. Apache Tomcat JBOSS IIS ASP etc. running on at least one server and another portion of the medical application is installed on one or more client computers. Similar to the stand alone medical application the conventional client server based medical application can be executed within the environment provided by the general purpose operating systems of the server and client computers and can interface directly with the resources provided by the server and client computers. The installation process in this second example is similar to the first. In certain examples client computers include installed .exe or .dll files that provide a graphical user interface GUI specific to the medical application. The GUI can also provide some bi directional medical data interface e.g. Open Database Connectivity ODBC Distributed Component Object Model DCOM Component Object Model COM Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP etc. between the client and server computers. These processes can be repeated for each instance of the medical application installed on the client and server computers.

Either of these first or second examples can be extended to include multi tenant situations where a medical application accesses one or more remote databases or patient data sources at one or more affiliated or unaffiliated healthcare institutions.

In a third example the medical application can be executed as a web server application where the medical data being acted upon is generated at one or more affiliated medical institutions. Web server software manages user presentation image viewing manipulation or processing or response to other selectable graphical and line mode oriented input or output. The database and the network and patient data interfaces e.g. DICOM HL 7 or IHE based of the enterprise web based environment can be similar to the server components of the client server environment. This example can be extended to include multi tenant situations where a medical application accesses one or more remote databases or patient data sources at one or more affiliated or unaffiliated healthcare institutions.

The present inventors have recognized among other things that the way software based medical applications are currently structured have significant drawbacks. For example each can require the medical application to be installed on a general purpose operating system running on a computer e.g. a client computer or a server . Installation of the medical application on the general purpose operating system is a multi step process requiring ordinal installation of many individual software components and in certain examples may require a license for each installed component before the medical application is available for use which results in a complex process in certain examples requiring both software and human actions which can require extensive time and effort. Additionally in certain examples compliance with FDA requirements can result in the medical application being installed and executed on a single user computer. Accordingly use of the medical application can require advance preparation and each of these ordinal processes e.g. a specialized computer installation third party licenses etc. can increase the overall cost and complexity of the medical application.

Further different medical application vendors can have different proprietary software implementations of standards interfaces which provide bi directional transfer of medical data. Accordingly it can be difficult to make every conventional medical application available for episodic occasional or non routine usage.

Also in certain examples it can be difficult to monitor or control usage of the medical application once installed on the general purpose operating system. Accordingly medical applications are often sold for perpetual or unlimited usage or have usage accounted retrospectively. In certain examples unlimited usage medical application prices can range from 5 000 to over 1 000 000 per copy. In many examples episodic or low volume usage of unlimited usage medical application is not cost effective and in certain examples can discourage a healthcare site from purchasing a given medical application effectively limiting the choices available to healthcare sites or clinicians. Healthcare sites and more importantly patients can benefit from having additional medical applications available during their care. Medical applications with similar functionality can have a demonstrated difference in efficacy and specificity. The costs associated with medical applications can also hinder vendors from producing medical applications as sales costs coupled with a finite list of customers can result in high capital acquisition purchase prices for healthcare consumers. The high cost of sales and support for advanced medical applications can hinder vendors from developing and marketing next generation applications due to a finite customer base.

In certain examples it can be difficult to ensure security of sensitive medical data available to medical applications installed on a general purpose operating system or to limit access of the medical data installed on the general purpose operating system to the client operating system including a physical network connection. In an example medical application providers implement multi tenant web based implementations e.g. sharing resources amongst more than one healthcare site or affiliated institution to reduce the cost of medical applications. However many multi tenant or web based implementations transfer patient outside of the healthcare facility e.g. patient data may be sent to or stored in a third party database which can be particularly troublesome in healthcare settings where extra precautions must be taken to ensure privacy of patient data and compliance with regulations such as HIPAA. In certain examples the healthcare site is forced to rely upon relatively weak database security such as database entries keys and indexes or weak encryption practices that may result in a security breach. Moreover in these examples the healthcare institution s often must rely on the third party to maintain this security.

The present inventors have recognized among other things that there is a need for a mechanism to allow different medical applications from different vendors to dynamically co exist securely and according to applicable regulations on a single physical workstation client server and web server based environments. In an example software based medical imaging applications can be made available to clinicians on a controlled basis. Components of the system and methods are served from one or perhaps several sites connected to the Internet or from client software in sites where healthcare is normally rendered e.g. hospitals medical clinics or physician offices and or other locations which are also connected to the Internet. In an example medical applications can be individually constructed into virtualized containers and made available to users through a client application which can be installed on their computer. Once installed the client application running on their computer can provide an interface to the medical data stored within an institution or from many institutions provide graphical user interface processing with a user and can provide patient data interfaces with all of the virtualized medical application containers which are available to be run. The system and methods described herein also provide for construction of virtualized medical application containers and mechanisms to store and download these containers.

In Example 1 a system includes one or more processors and a memory including instructions that when executed by the one or more processors causes the one or more processors to create a virtualized medical application container including to create an image of a clean version of an operating system to install a medical application on the image and to initialize the medical application on the image.

In Example 2 the instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to create the virtualized medical application container of Example 1 optionally include instructions to configure the medical application to communicate with a client application on a client operating system.

In Example 3 the instructions that when executed by the one or more processors causes the one or more processors to initialize the medical application of any one or more of Examples 1 2 optionally include instructions to restrict access of the medical application to a network interface of the client operating system.

In Example 4 the instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to create the image of the clean version of the operating system of any one or more of Examples 1 3 optionally include instructions to create the operating system file system virtual memory and cache space kernel drivers and bootstrap binaries.

In Example 5 the instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to install the medical application on the image of any one or more of Examples 1 4 optionally include instructions to install no other software on the image.

In Example 6 the memory of any one or more of Examples 1 5 optionally includes instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to create a copy of the virtualized medical application container and to store the copy of the virtualized medical application container on at least one of the one or more servers.

In Example 7 the instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to install the medical application on the image of any one or more of Examples 1 6 optionally include instructions to install a third party medical application executable library configuration file and database management product.

In Example 8 the memory of any one or more of Examples 1 7 optionally includes instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to store product information about the medical application on one or more servers wherein the product information includes at least one of a medical application name a category a manufacturer a price per defined measured use food and drug administration FDA clearance information a user comment or a user rating.

In Example 9 a machine readable medium contains instructions that when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to create a virtualized medical application container including to create an image of a clean version of an operating system to install a medical application on the image and to initialize the medical application on the image.

In Example 10 the instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to create the virtualized medical application container of any one or more of Examples 1 9 optionally include instructions to configure the medical application to communicate with a client application on a client operating system.

In Example 11 the instructions that when executed by the one or more processors causes the one or more processors to initialize the medical application of any one or more of Examples 1 10 optionally include instructions to restrict access of the medical application to a network interface of the client operating system.

In Example 12 the instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to create the image of the clean version of the operating system of any one or more of Examples 1 11 optionally include instructions to create the operating system file system virtual memory and cache space kernel drivers and bootstrap binaries.

In Example 13 the instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to install the medical application on the image of any one or more of Examples 1 12 optionally include instructions to install no other software on the image.

In Example 14 the machine readable medium of any one or more of Examples 1 13 optionally contains instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to create a copy of the virtualized medical application container and to store the copy of the virtualized medical application container on at least one of the one or more servers.

In Example 15 the instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to install the medical application on the image of any one or more of Examples 1 14 optionally include instructions to install a third party medical application executable library configuration file and database management product.

In Example 16 the machine readable medium of any one or more of Examples 1 15 optionally contains instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to store product information about the medical application on one or more servers wherein the product information includes at least one of a medical application name a category a manufacturer a price per defined measured use food and drug administration FDA clearance information a user comment or a user rating.

In Example 17 a method includes creating a virtualized medical application container including creating an image of a clean version of an operating system installing a medical application on the image and initializing the medical application on the image.

In Example 18 the creating the virtualized medical application container of any one or more of Examples 1 17 optionally includes configuring the medical application to communicate with a client application on a client operating system.

In Example 19 the initializing the medical application of any one or more of Examples 1 18 optionally includes restricting access of the medical application to a network interface of the client operating system.

In Example 20 the creating the image of the clean version of the operating system of any one or more of Examples 1 19 optionally includes creating the operating system file system virtual memory and cache space kernel drivers and bootstrap binaries.

In Example 21 the installing the medical application on the image of any one or more of Examples 1 20 optionally includes installing no other software on the image.

In Example 22 any one or more of Examples 1 21 optionally include creating a copy of the virtualized medical application container and storing the copy of the virtualized medical application container on at least one of the one or more servers.

In Example 23 the installing the medical application on the image of any one or more of Examples 1 22 optionally includes installing a third party medical application executable library configuration file and database management product.

In Example 24 any one or more of the Examples of 1 23 optionally include storing product information about the medical application on one or more servers wherein the product information includes at least one of a medical application name a category a manufacturer a price per defined measured use food and drug administration FDA clearance information a user comment or a user rating.

This overview is intended to provide an overview of subject matter of the present patent application. It is not intended to provide an exclusive or exhaustive explanation of the invention. The detailed description is included to provide further information about the present patent application.

The present inventors have recognized among other things a system or method for providing a controlled per use medical application for processing medical data in a healthcare environment enabling a healthcare provider to improve patient outcome by providing efficient access to one or more medical applications.

In certain examples the one or more medical applications can be made available from one or more location to one or more client computer s at a healthcare site e.g. a hospital a medical clinic a clinician s office etc. . In an example usage of each medical application or a group of medical applications can be controlled on a real time basis. In an example usage can be controlled using one or more permissions satisfied prior to execution of the medical application. In certain examples the one or more permissions can be satisfied by securing payment for a specified number of uses for a specified period of use for use of a particular set of patient data or one or more combinations.

In an example resources e.g. a physical network interface used by each medical application on the client computer can be controlled by a single client application such as to increase efficiency or ensure interoperability among a plurality of medical applications. In certain examples virtualization of the medical application can allow for download and execution such as on a controlled usage or limited access basis without requiring time consuming installation on the general purpose operating system.

In an example downloading and executing a virtual medical application e.g. as a virtual appliance as virtual software etc. can ensure use of the most updated version of the medical application and in certain examples can help to ensure continued compliance with various informatics standards or regulatory body requirements.

In an example the client computer can include one or more client computers client workstations e.g. clinician workstations or one or more other computers configured to process medical data. In an example the client application can be configured to communicate over a network with a server having one or more medical applications such as the medical application . Further the client application can be configured to receive information e.g. medical data from a storage device such as a database coupled to the client computer e.g. using a local area network a wide area network etc. . In an example the client computer can include a medical application such as at least partially received e.g. downloaded from the server etc. In certain examples the client computer can include a plurality of medical applications at least partially received e.g. downloaded from the server .

In an example the client application can be configured to provide information to one or more medical applications stored at least partially on the client computer and to control access of one or more of the medical applications to one or more client computer resources such as a network interface . In an example the server can include a processor e.g. one or more processors coupled to a storage medium e.g. one or more hard drives an array of hard drives etc. . In an example the storage medium can include a general purpose server operating system e.g. Linux Microsoft Windows Server IBM Advanced Interactive eXecutive AIX etc. stored or installed thereon. In certain examples the server operating system can manage one or more server software processes and can include commercial or open source software such as Apache Tomcat JBOSS or IIS or others to manage server based processes. In an example the server can include a physical network interface coupled to the network for communication with the client computer .

In an example the client computer can include an operating system e.g. a general purpose operating system stored or installed in a memory and configured to be executed on a processor coupled to the memory . The client operating system can include for example Microsoft Windows 7 Microsoft Windows XP Linux Redhat Ubuntu Apple OS X Google Android Apple ITunes or one or more other client operating systems. In certain examples the client computer can be coupled to a storage device such as via a local area network . In an example the external storage device can include a remote server such as via a wide area network and can include medical data stored thereon. In an example the external storage device can include a database of medical data a medical imaging archive clinical informatics storage a laboratory pathology system an imaging modality or other clinical users and information resources.

In an example a physical network interface can be coupled to the processor . In certain examples the physical network interface can be configured to couple the client computer to the network such as for communication with server . In an example the physical network interface can couple the client computer to the network such as for communication with the external storage device . In an example the operating system can include one or more client operating system resources such as a network interface. In an example the operating system can include a resource configured to control access to the physical network interface .

In an example the client computer can include a client workstation running a Windows based or other operating system a medical device e.g. a magnetic resonance imaging MRI scanner including a general purpose processor or memory a mobile device e.g. a laptop an etc. In certain examples the client computer can include one or more inputs e.g. keyboard mouse etc. configured to receive user requests such as a user request for a specific medical application a user request to process data on a medical application account information etc.

In an example the storage medium on the server can include one or more medical applications e.g. a medical application stored thereon.

In an example the medical application can include a software application or executable configured to perform one or more actions on information such as one or more items of medical data.

In an example the information can include one or more medical images information about one or more medical images healthcare information or other medical information for a wide range of specialties such as radiology cardiology urology pathology immunology anesthesiology orthopedics genetics dermatology endocrinology gastroenterology oncology hematology nephrology rheumatology neurology ophthalmology surgery otolaryngology and psychiatry. In an example the medical application can be used by a clinician for patient diagnosis treatment planning post procedure follow up for reporting of healthcare information in a wide variety of settings including hospitals clinics laboratories acute or long term care facilities rehabilitation centers drug stores medical imaging centers physician offices physicians homes etc. or for one or more other purposes.

In an example medical images can include patient data generated through one or more diagnostic medical imaging procedures such as x ray magnetic resonance imaging MRI ultrasound nuclear medicine single photon emission computed tomography SPECT positron emission tomography PET computed tomography CT mammography investigative radiological sciences endoscopy medical thermography medical photography fluoroscopy laboratory microscopy e.g. for human pathological investigations elastography optical coherence tomography OCT near infrared optical imaging NIR etc. In certain examples medical images can include patient data generated through measurement or recording techniques that produce data susceptible to be represented as maps e.g. containing positional information such as electroencephalography EEG magnetoencephalography MEG electrocardiography EKG spectroscopy and others.

In an example healthcare information can include information used in healthcare informatics such as healthcare or patient related data examination results or knowledge. In certain examples healthcare information can include information used in supporting aspects of diagnostics research and administration of clinical practices.

In an example the medical application can include medical device software clinical or departmental solutions enterprise wide solutions medical practice management IT infrastructure solutions electronic health records EHR solutions electronic medical records EMR solutions or one or more other medical application.

Medical applications can be configured to assist clinicians in the diagnostic process such as by providing information not otherwise readily available. In an example medical device software can include computer aided diagnostic software such as Second Look Digital from iCAD Inc. configured to identify areas of abnormal breast tissue for further evaluation using mammography images Neuroquant from CorTechs Lab Inc. configured to correlate structural brain volume to normative values using MRI data or CAD COLON from im3D configured to aid in evaluating suspect polyps in the colon and rectum using CT.

In an example clinical or departmental medical applications can include solutions for picture archiving and communication systems PACS radiology information systems RIS cardiology cardiovascular information systems CVIS emergency department information systems genetic reporting laboratories pharmacies or one or more other solution. In an example clinical or departmental solutions can include Centricity from General Electric Corporation a PACS system Horizon Cardiology CVIS from McKesson configured to provide a cardiology based departmental patient management and workflow system or GeneInsight from Partners Healthcare System configured to provide genetic testing report generation capabilities.

In an example EHR or EMR solutions can include software for integrating information about a patient including medical history test results diagnosis treatments medications allergies etc. EHR or EMR solutions can enable EHRs or EMRs to be accessed and modified by users across a hospital or healthcare system as well as by authorized external partners providing people involved in a patient s care with up to date information to speed up treatment or to enhance patient safety. In an example EHR or EMR solutions can include Cerner Millennium from Cerner Corp. Meditech 6.0 from Meditech AthenaHealth Allscripts Eclypsis Epic eClincal or others.

In an example the client computer can include the client application stored on the memory and configured to initiate and control the execution of one or more medical applications such as the medical application . In other examples the client application can include an executable image. In another example the client application can include one or many binary libraries or intermediate library objects controlled by a higher level executable image. The client application can communicate with a server application for download or control of the medical application as discussed in more detail below.

Although illustrates the client computer as a single client computer in other examples multiple client computers can be coupled to the server over the network . Accordingly because the client computer can include multiple client computers having an instance of the client application executing thereon multiple instances of the client application can communicate simultaneously with server application . Additionally although the server illustrated in includes a single server in certain examples the server can include a distributed server and can include multiple sites having synchronized databases coupled to the network .

In an example a medical application vendor can be provided access to the storage medium . Accordingly the vendor can provide updated versions and perform other maintenance related to the medical application . In an example the server or one or more other servers can support a website for potential clients to create an account to view available medical applications for download or use to provide accounting information for purchase of one or more of the available medical applications e.g. purchase tokens establish credit etc. or to provide an image of the client application for download to or installation on the client computer .

In an example the client application can communicate with the server application for download or control of the medical application as discussed in more detail below. In an example communication between the client application and the server application can be asynchronous. One or more of these communications can be implemented using for example representation state transfer REST .

In an example the server application can implement pointers or one or more tables for file system addresses for the medical application stored on the storage medium . In an example the server application can issue approvals denials for services to the client application based upon programmable business rules. In an example the server application can issue tokens to the client application authorizing use of a particular medical application on the client computer e.g. the medical application . In other examples one or more other payment can be accepted or received. In an example the server application can perform transaction logging to maintain records of payments for the medical applications. Additionally the server application can maintain a database system e.g. Microsoft SQL Server Oracle Postgres MySQL or others to maintain customer information medical application information or other information. In an example customer information can include among others registration information medical applications usage history and accounting information. Further medical application information can include vendor data medical application cost information licensing mechanics or one or more other types of information.

In an example the medical application can include a virtualized application configured to be executed on a virtual platform. In an example the medical application can include a software application that is fully installed within a container file that includes a complete run time environment for the application. The container can include a virtualized operating system having a conventional medical application installed thereon including an application .exe and .dll components along with other related services including a database management system. In an example the medical application can include a VMWare CITRIX or other equivalent based construct or virtual operating system.

At a scan of a clean version of the operation is made to create and save a baseline image. The scan of the clean version of the operating system can be performed by commercially available virtualization software e.g. VMWare CITRIX or others .

At the software application to be virtualized is installed on the clean version of the operating system. Installation of the software application includes adding files to the operating system such as the .exe or .dll files the .ini or other configuration files a data base management system product e.g. SQLite Postgres or Oracle etc.

At the installed software application is properly configured and initialized. In an example the software application can be initialized by construction of databases and tables and input of configuration information. In certain examples the installed software application can be configured to work directly with the client application. In other examples the installed software application can be isolated from the environment external to the client application. In certain examples medical data standards present within the medical application installed on the client computer can be isolated from the external environment such that they can still be used by the internal processes of the software application but interface with the client application to accomplish data exchange external to the installed software application.

In an example the software application to be virtualized can make use of specified application programming interfaces APIs to deconstruct and or construct input and or output files or messages for transfer of medical data between a software application e.g. the medical application and a client application. The APIs can reference specific directories in the operating system on the client computer to accommodate the file exchange or can be based upon TCP IP port communications or other application to application communication interface methods. In an example the specific directories can be constructed during installation of the client application on the client computer.

At a scan of the configured and operational operating system and software application components thereon is then made to create and save a final image. The scan can be performed by commercially available virtualization software e.g. VMWare CITRIX or others which access the differences between the initial baseline image and the final image. The resultant difference can include an executable file.

At the executable file compression sandbox location and domain user access to applications is customized according to the virtualization platform used e.g. VMWare CITRIX or others . The executable file can then go through a final build process to form the completed virtualized application. Once formed the virtualized medical application can be stored in memory on the server.

Advantageously virtualization of the medical application can enable quick and easy use of heterogeneous medical applications at a client computer. Because the medical applications are virtualized it is efficient for a user to use a medical application a single or small number of times because the user is not required to install the medical application on the operating system of the client computer. Instead the virtualized medical application includes the operating system files necessary for operation therewith. Additionally the containerization process of the virtualized software application can enable restrictions or controls on the software application. Furthermore because the medical application is not directly installed in the operating system the client application can more easily control the initial execution of the medical application.

In an example the client application e.g. the client application can control one or more medical applications by providing an interface between one or more medical applications and one or more resources of the client computer.

In an example a medical application e.g. the medical application can interact with the client application and the client application can act as the interface between the medical application and resources of the client computer e.g. the client computer . In an example because each medical application e.g. the medical application is configured for use on a virtual platform all instances of a medical application on disparate computers can be identical. In an example the medical application does not have to be individually configured for each computer because the virtual platform and client application with which the medical application interacts is identical on all computers. In an example a single copy of a medical application e.g. the medical application etc. can be run on multiple disparate computers.

Moreover the client application can be configured to perform services to support one or more medical standards used by the one or more medical applications. In an example the client application can perform services including maintaining databases and interfacing with external sources of medical data e.g. the medical data . Accordingly the medical application does not need to be configured for the services provided by the client application. Instead the medical application can be configured to communicate with the client application and the client application can perform the services for the medical application. In an example this can improve efficiency of executing multiple medical applications on a single computer because the medical application does not maintain separate services for a given medical standard. In an example each of the medical applications e.g. medical application can interface with the client application and the client application itself can provide a common set of services to support the one or more medical standards. Additionally because the client application can perform the services in certain examples the client application can be configured for site specific parameters only. Moreover because the client application can be configured for site specific parameters in certain examples the medical application is not required to be specifically configured to the site. Accordingly in certain examples the configuration for site specific parameters can occur on only the client application and one or more medical applications e.g. the medical application etc. can be executed based on this configuration.

In an example one or more databases provided by the client application for support of one or more medical standards can be used for storage of medical data. For example after a medical application has executed and generated results the results can be stored in the database of the client application. Thus the user can access the results even when the medical application is not currently executing. Accordingly even if the client application does not allow execution of the medical application e.g. because the appropriate token not present the results from a previous execution can still be accessed. In an example the database can include a database e.g. Microsoft SQL Server Oracle Postgres MySQL or others . In an example the client application can provide services for one or more medical standards for encoding storage exchange and decoding of medical data such as DICOM HL 7 IHE ICD CPE etc.

At after authentication of the user the client application can pass programmatic control to a graphical user interface GUI of the client application. In certain examples the GUI can provide interaction with a user of a client computer e.g. the client computer . In an example the GUI can perform functions including providing a display and manipulation of medical data e.g. patient demographic clinical or imaging data that is stored within a database or file system provided by the client application providing a listing of the names of medical applications stored in the database of the client application providing a listing of the names of medical applications available for use on the server or website and other client application graphical user elements.

At the client application receives a selection of a medical application from the user. In an example the user can select one or more of the medical applications using an input device coupled to the client computer. In another example the medical applications may automatically be selected for use based upon a pre determined set of algorithms and tables which will either choose one or more medical applications and specific patient data to run in sequence. The user may also select a patient data set for the client application e.g. the client application to process as input.

At the client application checks for a token or other information e.g. credit license etc. granting permission to execute the medical application. In an example the token can include a software token that is unique number used as a security device for authentication of the medical application. In an example the token can be generated by the server. In other examples the token can include one or more other indications of credit good standing license etc. After receiving a selection of the medical application from the user the client application can send a request to the server for a token for the medical application. In an example the request for the token that is sent to the server can include specific patient information to be processed by the medical application a timestamp an identification of the user of the client application or an amount of usage e.g. length of time requested for the medical application. In an example the request can include a REST based message that is either secure or non secured.

In certain examples the server can determine whether a payment has been secured for the medical application use to process a specific set of patient data. In an example usage can be metered and the server can determine if an adequate cash or credit balance exists or other rights which have been granted to pay for the amount of usage requested. When payment has been secured the server can determine what type of license to grant. In an example the server can grant a license for a single use a defined number of uses or unlimited uses. In another example the server can grant a license for an unlimited number of uses but limited to use on a specific set of medical data. In yet another example the server can grant a license for a defined length of time e.g. 24 hours or a specified number of uses in a defined length of time etc. When the server has verified that payment has been secured for the medical application the server can generate a token with the appropriate license and send the token to the client application on the client computer. In an example the token can be used to grant the permissions by including an identification of the patient or patient data upon which use is authorized. In another example the token can be used to grant the permissions by including identification of the medical application for which use is authorized or can include both. In other examples the token permissions can be based on the creation input or dissemination output of medical data supplied to for example a web based multi tenant application e.g. such as described in more detail with respect to . In an example the token can be sent to the client application in a REST based message that is either secure or non secured.

At the client application can determine the authorized use of the medical application based on the permissions provided by the token for the medical application. Having token based use of the medical application can provide several advantages. For example token based use can enable the client application to ensure payment has been secured prior to use of the medical application. Additionally tokens can provide a simple mechanism enabling the client application to control use a medical application. In other examples other forms of permission or authorization different than tokens can be used.

At when all of the permissions of the token are satisfied the client application can initiate execution of the medical application. In an example the token can be stored by the client application on the client computer. Thus the token does not need to be downloaded to be re used for usage of the same medical application and patient data. In another example the token can be deleted after use e.g. automatically and a new instance of the medical application e.g. or another copy can be obtained from the server to authorize future use.

In an example when initiating the execution of the medical application after the token has been sent from the server the client application can use the token again for initiation of the execution of the medical application. The client application can re verify each of the permissions of the token prior to execution of the medical application. As another example if the token authorized use of the medical application for a certain time frame the client application can verify that the time frame has not passed.

Another advantage of token based use of the medical application is that the medical application for which the token authorizes use can be executed on disparate computers as long as the permissions of the token are satisfied. For example the token and a link to the medical application along with other information can be sent by the client application from the client computer to another remote computer having another copy of the client application installed thereon. The remote copy of the client application can receive the token and the link to the medical application and additional information and execute the medical application according to the permissions of the token. In other examples the token and the link to the medical application along with other information can be downloaded from the server by the other remote computer.

In certain examples the medical application can be executed on the client computer the server or another computer e.g. as explained in more detail below with respect to . Prior to use of the medical application the client application can verify the permissions associated with the selected medical application and can initiate execution of the medical application if the permissions are satisfied.

Once the medical application has been initiated the client application controls execution of the medical application to ensure compliance with the granted permissions and to limit the access of the medical application to resources e.g. a network interface of the client computer. In an example all communications from the medical application to resources external to the client computer are accomplished through the client application. The client application can control data exchange interfacing to the local network and construct the data into a file structure that is passed between the client application and the medical application. The medical application is limited to only communicating with the client application for external communications.

In an example the client application can periodically download a medical application e.g. the medical application for use to maintain updated versions. In another example a server e.g. the server which can include one or more servers can push updated versions of the medical application e.g. the medical application to the appropriate computer e.g. the client computer . After an updated version of a medical application is stored in the storage medium of the server the server can send the updated version to the appropriate computer e.g. the client computer to replace an older version of the medical application e.g. the medical application stored thereon. Advantageously because the medical application can be configured to execute on a virtual platform the medical application requires minimal individual configuration and minimal IT support. This enables the most current version of the medical application to be easily obtained and reduces the issue associated with using outdated or unsupported versions of the medical application. In an example if the application is deleted from the computer when the user selects the medical application for use the next time the medical application can be downloaded again.

In an example the client application can perform transfer of medical data to another client application executing on another computer. In an example the transfer of medical data simplifies a peer to peer consultation e.g. allowing multiple users to run the medical application on the particular set of medical data . Advantageously when a token grants use to a particular medical application for a particular set of patient data the ability to send the token and medical application to a remote computer enables peer to peer consulting e.g. having multiple users run the medical application on the particular set of patient data without requiring each user to individually secure access to the medical application. Instead a single token can be obtained and sent to each computer for execution of the particular medical application.

In an example the client application can include a mechanism to request or respond to a peer to peer consultation. In an example the peer to peer consultation can be performed manually such that a request to perform medical data transfer is manually selected via an input device on a computer. In another example the peer to peer consultation can be performed through an automated administrative script bi directional medical data transfer. In an example when a request to perform a medical data transfer is selected the client application can send medical data e.g. according to the DICOM standard to another client application. Additionally the other client application can send medical data e.g. results back to the client application for viewing.

In an example the client application can provide background processes that implement DICOM services including DICOM storage Service Class Provider SCP and Service Class User SCU DICOM query retrieve SCU SCP and DICOM storage commit SCU SCP. For non DICOM based medical data the client application can provide HL 7 based services. In an example the HL 7 services can be used to exchange medical data including patient demographic financial and reporting data including scheduled and performed medical procedures test results and patient status information. In an example the medical data can be transferred based on XML based methods along with Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP .

In an example client application can also include a manual query retrieve operation for accessing medical data. The query retrieve operation can for example be based on a DICOM standard query retrieve SCU operation. In an example the client application can include a manual medical data storage operation. The storage operation can be based on for example a DICOM standard storage SCU operation. In an example the client application can include a transmit results operation. The transmit results operation can be based on for example the DICOM standard. In an example the client application can include buttons to import and export DICOM files to a CD DVD. In an example the client application can include buttons to search DICOM metadata.

In an example the client application can be configured to receive a selection e.g. a user selection an automated selection etc. of a medical application see e.g. step of . If the selected medical application is not stored locally on a client computer hosting the client application then the client application can be configured to communicate with the networked server to download a copy of the selected medical application such as from a storage medium e.g. the storage medium . In an example the storage medium can include a medical application repository stored in a read write computer medium such as a magnetic disk physical file system a memory based file system e.g. a virtual file system a ram disk etc. or other storage medium.

In an example the medical application e.g. the medical application can be downloaded such as through an internet based download software program e.g. file transfer protocol FTP . Once downloaded the medical application can be executed on the client computer. In an example the client application can include a GUI configured to provide an indication of the download status of the medical application and to receive user commands such as for execution etc. The medical application can be executed within a virtual platform provided on the client computer e.g. such as described in step of . In certain examples the virtual platform can be provided by a commercial vendor such as VMWare CITRIX or other comparable software.

In an example commercial or research medical applications developed to support one or more of a thick client e.g. a thick client medical application client server e.g. a client server medical application enterprise web based e.g. an enterprise web based medical application or multi tenant web based e.g. a multi tenant web based medical application architectures can be virtualized such as through processes described in and can be stored on a server e.g. the server as container files .dat files or one or more other virtualized file structures.

In an example a thick client environment for execution of a medical application can include the thick client medical application a graphical user interface applications logic a database a network and patient data interface and in certain examples additional programs or files to support customization backup or application security or other support functions.

In an example the graphical user interface can manage user presentation image viewing manipulation or processing or response to other selectable graphical and line mode oriented input or output. The applications logic can include business rules logic image processing measurement or quantification logic or software services logic as well as other application logic components. The database can include a database server configured to support ODBC Java Database Connectivity JDBC Microsoft ActiveX Data Objects ADO or other connections or connector methods can include a database manager e.g. Microsoft SQL Server Oracle Postgres MySQL or others configured to create or delete databases tables elements keys indexes or other components and can be configured to provide one or more storage systems configured to either store medical or other data or pointers including addresses of data on one or more file systems. The network and patient interface can be configured to facilitate bi directional communication e.g. 802.xx physical network and logical exchange of patient or other data through either proprietary or standards based methods e.g. DICOM HL 7 IHE .

In an example a client server environment for execution of a medical application can include the client server medical application a graphical user interface a client server data exchange applications logic a database a network and patient data interface and in certain examples additional programs or files to support customization backup or application security or other support functions. In an example the client server medical application can be configured to be at least partially executed on a server over a network and at least partially on a client computer. In an example at step of the client application can be configured to run the graphical user interface the client server data exchange the applications logic the database and the network and patient data interface in certain examples all in the same container file .dat file or one or more other virtualized file structures.

In an example the graphical user interface the applications logic the database and the network and patient data interface of the client server environment can be similar to the respective components of the thick client environment. The client server data exchange can be configured to support communication between one or more remote clients and one or more servers. In certain examples the client server data exchange can be implemented by the client application e.g. the client application GUI using one or more remote SQL calls to the applications logic or to the database by file transfer e.g. FTP or one or more other file exchange protocols or by proprietary data exchange methods.

In an example an enterprise web based environment for execution of a medical application can include an enterprise web based medical application a web server applications logic a database a network and patient data interface and in certain examples additional programs or files to support customization backup or application security or other support functions. In an example the enterprise web based medical application can be configured to be executed on a remote server e.g. a third party server . In an example the run time environment for at least a portion of the enterprise web based medical application can be provided on the remote server which can be situated on either a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN .

The enterprise web based medical application can include a centralized image of the medical application configured to provide a user with a browser interface. In certain examples the web based medical application components can be virtualized e.g. such as discussed above with respect to one or more of the steps described in the examples of and downloaded to a computer e.g. the client computer . In an example the web based medical application can provide a browser interface e.g. HTTP HTTPS Flash Silverlight etc. configured to provide interaction with a user at one or more network addressable computers supporting a web browser e.g. Internet Explorer Safari Firefox Chrome etc. . In an example the browser interface can execute in a run time environment within the client operating system of the client computer e.g. the operating system of the client computer . In an example while web browser usage e.g. HTTP HTTPS Flash Silverlight etc. can be similar to web based medical applications that may have not been virtualized control of the web based medical application can be asserted through the exchange of patient data using a client application e.g. the client application . In certain examples control of the web based medical application can be asserted solely through the exchange of patient data using the client application.

In an example the client application can control data exchange with a local network and construct the data into a file structure that is passed between the client application and the web based medical application. In certain examples the web based medical application is limited to only communicating with the client application for external communications. In these examples messages sent to or from the server are sent through the client application and not through the web based medical application and patient data processed by the enterprise web based medical application is provided by the client application.

In an example the web server can manage user presentation image viewing manipulation or processing or response to other selectable graphical and line mode oriented input or output. In an example the applications logic the database and the network and patient data interface of the enterprise web based environment can be similar to the respective components of the client server environment.

In an example a multi tenant web based environment for execution of a medical application can include a multi tenant web based medical application a web server applications logic a database and a network and patient data interface . In an example the multi tenant web based environment can be similar to the enterprise web based medical environment. However in certain examples patient data in the multi tenant web based environment can originate from more than one affiliated or unaffiliated medical institution. Accordingly database record keeping can be established to support a segregated institutional view of the patient data from a multi tenant database.

In an example at step of once a token is obtained and associated permissions are satisfied the medical application can be executed. Accordingly one or more components of the thick client environment the client server environment the enterprise web based environment or the multi tenant web based environment can be executed and run on the client computer in certain examples different than e.g. prior to one or more of the steps described in the examples of .

Thus other embodiments can be realized. For example an article of manufacture such as a computer a memory system a magnetic or optical disk some other storage device or any type of electronic device or system can include one or more processors coupled to a machine readable medium such as a memory e.g. removable storage media as well as any memory including an electrical optical or electromagnetic conductor having instructions stored thereon e.g. computer program instructions which when executed by the one or more processors result in performing any of the actions described with respect to the methods above.

The computer can take the form of a computer system having a processor coupled to a number of components directly and or using a bus . Such components can include main memory static or non volatile memory and mass storage . Other components coupled to the processor can include an output device such as a video display an input device such as a keyboard a cursor control device such as a mouse and a signal generation device e.g. a speaker or a light emitting diode LED . A network interface device to couple the processor and other components to a network can also be coupled to the bus . The instructions can further be transmitted or received over the network via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Any of these elements coupled to the bus can be absent present singly or present in plural numbers depending on the specific embodiment to be realized.

In an example one or more of the processor the memories or the storage device can each include instructions that when executed can cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methods described herein. In alternative embodiments the computer operates as a standalone device or can be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked environment the machine can operate in the capacity of a server or a client machine in server client network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. The computer can include a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a cellular telephone a web appliance a network router switch or bridge or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. Further while only a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.

While the machine readable medium is shown as a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database or associated caches and servers and or a variety of storage media such as the processor registers memories and the storage device that store the one or more sets of instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such a set of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to tangible media such as solid state memories optical and magnetic media.

In an example the client application e.g. the client application can be configured to provide a virtual store of medical applications to a user for selection. In an example a plurality of medical applications can be stored on one or more servers and information about the plurality of medical applications can be made available to the client application for presentation to the user e.g. using a client computer . In certain examples the information available to the user through the virtual store can include the medical application name the version number application categories e.g. radiology cardiology modality organ etc. price per defined measured use manufacturer name manufacturer contact information customer support information FDA clearance information e.g. FDA cleared or approved research only etc. 510 k or premarketing approval PMA information e.g. number approval date etc. user comments e.g. access to a blog etc. user ratings training materials manuals application requirements etc.

Further in other examples the client application can be configured to compare medical information e.g. metadata in a DICOM file to a pre set table of medical applications to automatically suggest or provide access e.g. using a token to one or more medical applications compatible with the medical information. In an example other information can be used such as user preference etc. If the suggested medical application is available on the client computer the medical application can be executed. If the suggested medical application is not available the medical application can be located and retrieved e.g. downloaded such as automatically .

In certain examples the medical applications referenced herein e.g. the medical application etc. can include one or more commercially available or other medical applications.

Resolution MD Cardiac from Calgary Scientific a calcium scoring ventricular function coronary analysis application 

Vectorvison Spine from Brainlab a fusion of CT and fluro images for spine surgery navigation application 

Vectorvison Truma from Brainlab a virtual fluroscopy for fracture reduction and screw insertion application 

Pre Operative Planning from Sectra digital templating modules for hips knees and fracture repositioning application 

Ziostation for Cadiology from Ziosoft a Cardiac function analysis coronary analysis calcium scoring application 

Ziostation for Nuero from Ziosoft a CT Brain perfusion CT vessel analysis CT subtraction application 

Ziostation for Oncology from Ziosoft a colon analysis image fusion multi data set comparison application 

Image Arena from TomTec an intra media wall thickness analysis used for bi ventricular lead placement application 

IMAnalytics Workspace from Phillips Medical an advanced image analysis quantification and visualization tool kit application 

Syngo MulitModality Workspace from Siemens a workspace for viewing images from multiple sources application 

The above detailed description includes references to the accompanying drawings which form a part of the detailed description. The drawings show by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention can be practiced. These embodiments are also referred to herein as examples. Such examples can include elements in addition to those shown or described. However the present inventors also contemplate examples in which only those elements shown or described are provided. Moreover the present inventors also contemplate examples using any combination or permutation of those elements shown or described or one or more aspects thereof either with respect to a particular example or one or more aspects thereof or with respect to other examples or one or more aspects thereof shown or described herein.

All publications patents and patent documents referred to in this document are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety as though individually incorporated by reference. In the event of inconsistent usages between this document and those documents so incorporated by reference the usage in the incorporated reference s should be considered supplementary to that of this document for irreconcilable inconsistencies the usage in this document controls.

In this document the terms a or an are used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one independent of any other instances or usages of at least one or one or more. In this document the term or is used to refer to a nonexclusive or such that A or B includes A but not B B but not A and A and B unless otherwise indicated. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein. Also in the following claims the terms including and comprising are open ended that is a system device article or process that includes elements in addition to those listed after such a term in a claim are still deemed to fall within the scope of that claim. Moreover in the following claims the terms first second and third etc. are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

