---

title: Method and apparatus for applying a mid-IR graded-index microstructure to an optical fiber tip to achieve anti-reflective properties
abstract: A method and apparatus for applying a mid-IR graded microstructure to the end of a chalcogenide glass optical fiber are presented herein. The method and apparatus transfer a microstructure from a negative imprint on a nickel shim to a chalcogenide glass fiber tip with minimal shape distortion and minimal damage-threshold impact resulting in large gains in anti-reflective properties.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09533911&OS=09533911&RS=09533911
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 09533911
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140722
---
This Application is a continuation in part from co pending application Ser. No. 13 094 860 filed Apr. 27 2011 which claims the benefit of the filing date of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 328 288 filed on Apr. 27 2010 the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference hereto.

The invention was made with United States Government support under Contract No. N00173 05 C 6020 awarded by the United States Naval Research Laboratory. The United States Government has certain rights in the invention.

The disclosed subject matter relates to a method and apparatus for transferring a microstructure from a negative imprint on a nickel shim to an AsSoptical fiber tip with minimal shape distortion and minimal damage threshold impacts thereby improving the anti reflective properties of the AsSoptical fiber.

However the method and apparatus herein presented are not limited in application to AsSoptical fibers. In fact the apparatus and method herein presented can be practiced with other optical fiber materials having melting points below 600 C.

Optical fibers can be used in a great number of applications in the Mid IR wavelength region including sensing imaging and processing. These optical fibers have large refractive indexes ranging from about 2.3 to about 2.9. Air on the other hand has a retractive index of 1. This large difference in refractive index between the optical fibers and air leads to signal losses at the optical fiber air interface. In some applications these signal losses at the optical fiber air interface can amount to 25 or more.

In order to prevent signal losses some have turned to applying anti reflective coatings to polished fiber tips. However polishing can oftentimes lead to optical fiber fracture in delicate fiber materials. Furthermore anti reflective coatings often exhibit adhesion problems and rapid degradation as a result of exposure to high intensity signal radiation.

Therefore a need exists for an improved method and apparatus for applying an anti reflective treatment to mid IR optical fibers that is reliable efficient and does not damage the optical fibers.

In one embodiment the disclosed subject matter relates to a method for preventing reflection losses in optical fibers the method comprising the steps of heating an optical fiber tip to form a heated optical fiber tip flattening the heated optical fiber tip to form a flattened optical fiber tip heating the flattened optical fiber tip and imprinting a microstructure onto the flattened optical fiber tip.

In another embodiment the disclosed subject matter relates to method for preventing reflection losses in properly terminated AsSfibers the method comprising securing a properly terminated AsSfiber into a ferrule so that a tip of the properly terminated AsSfiber protrudes about 1 mm to 2 mm from the ferrule fastening the ferrule to a fixture lowering the fixture onto a heating surface such that the heating surface transfers heat to the properly terminated AsSfiber tip without touching the properly terminated AsSfiber tip adjusting the orientation of the fixture with a hollow cylinder placed between the fixture and the heating surface to ensure perpendicularity of the properly terminated AsSfiber tip relative to the heating surface lowering the fixture so that the properly terminated AsSfiber tip contacts the heating surface replacing the heating surface with a hot imprinting surface lowering the fixture onto the hot imprinting surface such that the hot imprinting surface transfers heat to the properly terminated AsSfiber tip without touching the properly terminated AsSfiber tip and lowering the fixture so that the properly terminated AsSfiber tip contacts the hot imprinting surface.

In another embodiment the disclosed subject matter relates to an apparatus for creating an antirefieclive tip in an optical fiber the apparatus comprising a fixture that is primarily capable of translational motion with tip tilt rotational fine adjustment via goniometer or similar device a heating element positioned along a translational axis of the fixture and a shaping member disposed on the heating element.

As used herein the term properly terminated fiber or appropriately terminated optical fiber or properly terminated AsSfiber means an optical fiber including an AsSfiber and any other optical fiber having a melting point below 600 C. that has been previously cleaved and glued into a Zirconia Ferrule such that the optical fiber tip protrudes out about one to two diameters.

It will be understood that other chalcogenide glasses used as an optical fiber may be substituted for the AsSoptical fiber in this invention. By a chalcogenide glass what is meant is a glass which contains one or more chalcogenide elements which would typically be sulfur selenium or tellurium. Nonlimiting examples of chalcogenide glasses that might be used in optical fiber applications in this invention would be those known as the AMTIR Amorphous Material Transmitting Infrared Radiation glasses which are commercially available from Amorphous Materials Inc. which is located at 3130 Benton Street Garland Tex. 75042 USA. These glasses include AMTIR 1 GeAsSeglass AMTIR 2 and AMTIR 4 and AMTIR 5 arsenic selenide glasses or AsSe AMTIR 3 GeSbSeglass and AMTIR 6 arsenic trisulphide glass which is often shown as AsS but as a glass is actually AsS . Other nonlimiting examples of chalcogenide glasses which would be suitable for use in an optical fiber applications in the invention would include tellurium arsenic selenium glass TeAsSe and germanium sulfide glasses GeS .

Referring to a preferred embodiment of the claimed method is depicted in flow chart . In step using standard optic practices a flat shaping member is cleaned first using acetone and subsequently using methanol. In step ionized air is applied to the flat shaping member in order to remove any excess acetone and or methanol left over from step . In step a flat shaping member is inspected for cleanliness under a high power long focal length digital microscope having at least 80 magnification capabilities.

In order to ensure proper cleanliness during this stage of the process if microscopic inspection in step reveals that further cleaning is necessary the cleaning procedure should be repeated beginning with step until microscopic inspection in step reveals that the flat shaping member is clean.

In step using standard optic cleaning practices an imprinting member is cleaned using methanol. In step ionized air is applied to the imprinting member in order to remove any excess methanol left over from step . The imprinting member is then cleaned using an Argon Plasma Cleaner such as Plasma Preen made by Terra Universal Inc step and inspected for cleanliness step under a high power long focal length digital microscope having at least 80 magnification capabilities.

In order to ensure proper cleanliness during this stage of the process if microscopic inspection in step reveals that further cleaning is necessary the cleaning procedure should be repeated beginning with step until microscopic inspection in step reveals that the flat shaping member is clean.

In step the flat shaping member is placed on a temperature adjustable heating unit such as a hot plate. While the shaping member is heating up in step in step a properly terminated AsSfiber is inserted into a fastening fixture usually made of steel. The AsSfiber ferrule is inserted into the fixture such that the Zirconia clad tip protrudes about 1 mm to about 2 mm from the end of the fastening fixture. The fastening fixture holds the Zirconia ferrule parallel to the primary axis of translation and features a larger perpendicular surface which can be used as a reference surface in the next step the hollow cylinder adjustment . The fixture is capable of translational motion so that as the fixture moves down the fixture moves toward the shaping member positioned directly below the fixture and as the fixture moves up the fixture moves away from the shaping member positioned directly below the fixture.

Once the ferrule and optic fiber are fastened in the fixture step in step a hollow cylinder with flat parallel ends is placed on top of the flat shaping member and the fixture is lowered so as to touch the opposite end of the cylinder. The tip tilt adjustment feature is used step to make sure the fixture is flush with the cylinder end adjusted by eye . This ensures that the ferrule optic fiber assembly s translational axis is normal to the surface of the shaping member. Further because the cylinder is hollow only the outer surface of the fixture contacts the ring while the optic fiber tip remains untouched within the hollow space.

In step goniometers are adjusted to ensure that the ferrule optic fiber assembly is normal along the axis of translational motion to the top surface of the shaping member. Thus once the ring is removed the bottom surface of the ferrule and the optic fiber tip contained within it are nominally parallel to the flat shaping member to within the tolerances of the assemblies .

Referring to in step the temperature of the flat shaping member is allowed to stabilize with the temperature of a hot pate surface to a temperature range of about 170 C. to about 270 C. It is important to ensure the flattening member stabilizes within the above mentioned temperature range because a lower temperature may result in defective flattening while a higher temperature could result in optic fiber damage.

Once the flattening member has stabilized at the desired temperature step in step the fixture is lowered bringing the ferrule optic fiber assembly toward the heated flattening member. Since the optic fiber tip protrudes from the ferrule as the fixture moves toward the heated flattening member the optic fiber tip is closer to the heated flattening member than any portion of the ferrule. The fixture should move down toward the heated flat shaping member until the optic fiber tip is about 100 m to about 200 m from the heated flat shaping member. Once the optic fiber tip is within this desired range the fixture is held in place for about 60 seconds. This permits the tip to be heated radiatively and by air convection due to its close proximity to the heated surface.

At the end of the 60 seconds of step the fixture again moves down toward the heated flat shaping member until the optic fiber tip contacts the heated surface of the flat shaping member step . To ensure appropriate flattening of the optic fiber tip in step a prescribed pressure of about 3 000 PSI to about 144 000 PSI is applied on the optic fiber tip against the flat surface of the heated flat shaping member. The period of time during which contact and pressure are applied can vary. In fact contact and pressure can be maintained for a period of about 10 seconds to about 300 seconds Note time temperature and pressure are co dependent variables reducing one quantity can often be made up by increasing another .

In step the pressure on the optic fiber tip is removed and the fixture is moved away from the heated surface of the flat shaping member. The optic fiber tip at the end of step should be flat consistent with the surface of the heated flat shaping member.

In step the flat shaping member is removed from hot plate and replaced with the imprinting member. The imprinting member is allowed to stabilize to a temperature range of about 170 C. to about 270 C. The surface of the imprinting member closest to the optic fiber tip contains a negative imprint of the microstructure that will later be contact transferred to the optic fiber tip on step below. The microstructure on the imprinting member can consists of any desired pattern arrangement but usually contains a plurality of protrusions and recesses. In one embodiment the microstructure used is manufactured by TelAztec LLC of Burlington Mass. 01803.

Once the imprinting member s temperature is stabilized step in step the fixture is lowered bringing the ferrule optic fiber assembly toward the heated imprinting member. The fixture should move down toward the heated imprinting member until the optic fiber tip is about 100 m to about 200 m from the heated imprinting member. Once the optic fiber tip is within this desired range the fixture is held in place for about 60 seconds. This permits the tip to be heated radiatively and by air convection due to its close proximity to the heated surface.

At the end of the 60 seconds of step the fixture again moves toward the heated imprinting member until the optic fiber tip contacts the heated imprinting member step . To ensure appropriate imprinting of the optic fiber tip a prescribed pressure of about 3 000 PSI to about 80 000 PSI is be applied on the optic fiber tip against the surface of the imprinting member. Contact and pressure should be maintained for a period of about 30 seconds. The period of time during which contact and pressure are applied can vary. In fact contact and pressure can be maintained for a period of about 10 seconds to about 300 seconds Note time temperature and pressure are co dependent variables reducing one quantity can often be made up by increasing another .

At the end of the 30 second period in step the pressure is removed and the fixture is moved away from the imprinting member. The optic fiber tip at the end of step should have a microstructure consistent with the surface of the imprinting member.

In step the ferrule optic fiber assembly is removed from the fixture and is inspected under appropriate magnification to ensure proper microstructure transfer.

Referring to a preferred embodiment of the apparatus for creating an antireflective tip in an optical fiber hereinafter the apparatus is depicted. The apparatus has a fixture that is capable of rotational motion. In one embodiment the fixture is capable of rotational motion along a y axis that is perpendicular to a work bench . However in other embodiments the fixture may be capable of translational motion along the x axis or z axis.

The apparatus also has a heating element that is positioned along the axis of translational motion of the fixture . The heating element has a temperature sensing means disposed on it. The temperature sensing means can consist of a thermistor a thermometer or any other temperature sensing device commercially available.

The axis of translational motion of the fixture can vary. For instance in one embodiment where the axis of translational motion corresponds to an axis of gravitational acceleration in this embodiment the heating element can be positioned below the fixture which is disposed on a work bench . In an alternate embodiment the heating element can be position above the fixture . Further in other embodiments the axis of translational motion of the fixture can be perpendicular to the axis of gravitational acceleration in this embodiment the heating element can be positioned at any number of positions along the axis of translational motion of the fixture . The heating element can be any commercially available hot plate having either variable temperature of variable power settings.

Positioned on the heating element there is a shaping member . The shaping member is positioned so that at least a portion of the shaping member intersects the axis of translational motion of the fixture . The shaping member can have different patterns. For instance in one embodiment the shaping member has a substantially flat shape. In an alternate embodiment the shaping member can have a negative imprinting region having an irregular shape consisting of a plurality of protrusions and recessions.

Further the shaping member can have either single shaping pattern or a multiple shaping patterns. For instance in one embodiment the shaping member can have a single substantially flat shaping pattern. In a different embodiment the shaping member can have a single negative imprinting region consisting of an irregular shape pattern having a plurality of protrusions and recessions. In other embodiments the shaping member can have combinations of patterns located on different regions of the shaping member . For instance in one embodiment the shaping member can have a first region that is substantially flat and a second region that is substantially irregular.

Fastened to the fixture there is a ferrule . The ferrule can be any type of commercially available and appropriate ferrule including steel ferrules as long as the process of inserting the fiber into the ferrule does not damage it. The bare optical fiber is glued into the ferrule in advance. The bare optical fiber and ferrule assembly can have additional secondary ferrules fixture adapters or armor surrounding the ferrule terminated fiber such that the assembly fits snugly into the fixture . In a preferred embodiment the bare optical fiber is an AsSfiber. Further the bare optical fiber is terminated with a Zirconia ferrule nested inside a steel adapter placed in the ferrule so that at least of a portion of the bare optical fiber a fiber tip protrudes through the ferrule assembly.

Upon fastening to the fixture the ferrule and bare optical fiber moves along the translational axis of motion of the fixture either toward or away from the shaping member . Guiding the translational motion there can be a rail that is operatively connected to the fixture so that the fixture can move along the rail . A connecting member can be used to connect the rail to z axis goniometer and x axis goniometer which allow for two dimensional rotational adjustments of the fixture along the z axis and x axis respectively. In general the goniometers axes are set up perpendicular to one another as well as perpendicular to the primary axis of translation y axis in this example .

In one embodiment there can be platform connected to the x axis goniometer and also operatively connected via a connecting member to translational stage thereby providing translational motion to the fixture . In an alternate embodiment the platform can be connected to the z axis goniometer and also be operatively connected via a connecting member to translational stage . Translational stage provides translational motion to the fixture along any desired axis depending on the desired set up. For instance in one embodiment translational stage may provide translational motion along an axis normal i.e. along a y axis to a work bench . In other embodiments the translational stage may provide translational motion along an axis parallel i.e. along an x axis to a work bench .

Additional translational members may be provided in order to facilitate two or three dimensional adjustment capabilities. For instance in one embodiment a z axis translational stage can be operatively connected to translational stage to provide overall control of both y axis and z axis motion respectively. Further an x axis translational stage can be operatively connected to z axis translational stage to provide overall control of y axis z axis and x axis respectively.

The apparatus also has a pressure exerting member . The pressure exerting member exerts pressure along the translational axis of rotation of the fixture and more particularly along the length of the bare optical fiber . In one embodiment the pressure exerting member can be a weight. In this embodiment the weight can be disposed on platform where it transfers pressure to the fixture by gravity. In other embodiments the pressure exerting member can be a hydraulic device mechanical screw or other pressure exerting device operatively connected to the fixture . The pressure exerting member is capable of exerting a pressure in the range of about 3 000 PSI to about 144 000 PSI. In the case where weights are used the applied pressure is inferred by dividing the weight by the bare optical fiber surface area. In other embodiments a scale or force feedback sensor can be used to measure the applied force for pressure calculations.

A microscope can be positioned within line of sight of the fixture in order to facilitate visual inspection of the bare optical fiber while the apparatus is in use. In one embodiment the microscope has a long focal length and has at least 80 magnification capabilities along with electronic video capabilities. The microscope can be positioned on a microscope stand and can be optionally connected via a video signal cable to a monitor that displays the images captured by the microscope thereby facilitation inspection of the bare optical fiber .

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are intended solely to illustrate the application of the principles of the disclosed subject matter. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosed subject matter in the present Application. Accordingly the appended claims are intended to cover such modifications and alternative arrangements. Thus while the disclosed subject matter of the present Application has been described above with particularity and detail in connection with what is presently deemed to be the most practical and preferred embodiments it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that numerous modifications including but not limited to variations in size materials shape form function and manner of operation assembly and use may be made without departing from the principles and concepts set forth herein.

