---

title: Automated computer controlled system for measuring the consumption of printer resources and transacting environmental offsets
abstract: There is disclosed an automated computer controlled system for measuring the consumption of printer resources and transacting environmental offsets, and may comprise a printer resource tracking system (PRTS) collecting resource consumption data from printing equipment. A transactional server may retrieve the resource consumption data from the PRTS. A consumed resource associated with a customer may be consumed by the printing equipment downstream of a supplier of the printer resources. An offset project may communicate with the transactional server and be capable of planting an environmental offset upstream of the supplier and offset an environmental impact of the consumed resource. A scaling factor may be dependent on distinctive characteristics of at least one offset project. A calculator may apply the scaling factor to the consumed resource to calculate the environmental offset. A user interface may present to the customer an option to order the environmental offset from an offset project.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09268509&OS=09268509&RS=09268509
owner: PRINTRELEAF, INC.
number: 09268509
owner_city: Denver
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141112
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 903 174 filed Nov. 12 2013 by Jordan Darragh for Automated Computer Controlled Consumer Paper Measurement And Reforestation Transactional Systems and Methods which patent application is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Generally businesses and large organizations consume large amounts of paper and other printer resources through the use of printers printing presses and other printing equipment. The consumption of these printer resources often have a depleting environmental impact. For example a substantial portion of the trees harvested to make paper are not replaced reducing forest acreage and perhaps ecosystem health. Additionally ink toner and the electric power used to operate the printer may have an environmental impact that depletes the ecosystem. Some organizations alleviate the environmental impact by implementing one or more Reduce Reuse Recycle programs. For example billing internal departments for the number of pages printed by that department or setting quotas may encourage employees to reduce the number of pages they print. Newly emerging print management systems PMS can automatically track paper and toner usage for a fleet of printers linked to the PMS via API Application Programming Interface . The PMS systems are designed to support internal billing and inventory control within a supply loop for the printer resource and may be used to reduce resource consumption. However reducing paper usage does not restore the environmental depletion that may have been caused by operating the printer.

In response to the above other organizations attempt to Restore the environment in proportion to the amount of the resources consumed going beyond Reduce Reuse Recycle . For example a business may collect receipts for the paper they ve used calculate a standard tree equivalent STE by scaling the amount of paper used and then fund a reforestation project which will plant an STE amount of trees on its behalf. However setting up a restorative program like this may be time consuming and piecemeal to implement requiring manual data collection an oversimplified calculation of STE and hand selecting a reforestation project having non standard or unreliable certification. For example the most common public domain formula for calculating the paper tree ratio equates 8 333 sheets of paper 8.5 11 20 lb standard letter paper to 1 tree 40 feet 7 inch diameter . Yet a 131 foot Red Cedar tree made into newsprint through a groundwood process will have a different scaling factor than a faster maturing 40 foot softwood tree made into office paper through a freesheet process. Therefore using a default STE scaling factor may result in a several fold inaccuracy in predicting how much of an environmental offset to plant in a reforestation project.

Another solution to offsetting environmental depletion is offered by online calculators such as http turnpaperintotrees.com . The user enters an amount of paper and the online calculator calculates an equivalent number of trees which may be easier than using a manual calculator or spreadsheet. However the online calculators may make assumptions about the paper type and weight the species of tree a survival rate of the trees planted on behalf of the paper user or other parameters resulting in an inaccurate environmental offset. Additional to the step of calculation the user must still manually collect the consumption data and locate a reforestation project. Reforestation projects can be found online as well and often present specifications and photographs about the project to a potential customer. However the customer may be an employee new to reforestation and not have the time or experience to educate themselves enough to wisely choose one project over another. Unfortunately online tools that calculate STE using average assumptions may be inaccurate. Further selecting reforestation projects online without the help of associated educational information may lead to choosing projects that do not meet the customer green objectives.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key aspects or essential aspects of the claimed subject matter. Moreover this Summary is not intended for use as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In an embodiment there is provided an automated computer controlled system for measuring the consumption of printer resources and transacting environmental offsets. The system may comprise a printer resource tracking system PRTS collecting resource consumption data from printing equipment communicating with the PRTS. A transactional server may retrieve the resource consumption data from at least one PRTS and store it in a memory. A consumed resource associated with a customer may be consumed by the printing equipment downstream of a supplier of the printer resources. At least one offset project may communicate with the transactional server and be capable of planting an environmental offset upstream of the supplier and thereby offset an environmental impact of the consumed resource. A scaling factor may be dependent on distinctive characteristics of at least one offset project. A calculator may apply the scaling factor to the consumed resource to calculate the environmental offset. A user interface may present to the customer an option to order the environmental offset from at least one offset project.

In another embodiment there is provided a method of automatically measuring the consumption of printer resources and transacting environmental offsets using a computer. The method may comprise collecting resource consumption data from printing equipment using a printer resource tracking system PRTS communicating with the printing equipment. The method may further comprise retrieving the resource consumption data from at least one PRTS using a transactional server having a processor and a memory. The method may further comprise storing the resource consumption data in the memory. The method may further comprise identifying a consumed resource consumed by the printing equipment and downstream of a supplier of the printer resource the consumed resource being quantified in the resource consumption data and causing an environmental impact. The method may further comprise associating the consumed resource with a customer. The method may further comprise communicating by the transactional server with at least one offset project capable of planting an environmental offset upstream of the supplier. The method may further comprise depending a scaling factor on distinctive characteristics of the at least one offset project as distinguished from other offset projects. The method may further comprise applying the scaling factor to the consumed resource to calculate the environmental offset by using a calculator operating within the transactional server. The method may further comprise presenting a user interface to the customer with an option to order the environmental offset from the at least one offset project. The method may further comprise offsetting the environmental impact.

Additional objects advantages and novel features of the technology will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will become more apparent to those skilled in the art upon examination of the following or may be learned from practice of the technology.

Embodiments are described more fully below in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the system and method. However embodiments may be implemented in many different forms and should not be construed as being limited to the embodiments set forth herein. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense.

When elements are referred to as being connected or coupled the elements can be directly connected or coupled together or one or more intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when elements are referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled there are no intervening elements present.

The subject matter may be embodied as devices systems methods and or computer program products. Accordingly some or all of the subject matter may be embodied in hardware and or in software including firmware resident software micro code state machines gate arrays etc. Furthermore the subject matter may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable or computer readable storage medium having computer usable or computer readable program code embodied in the medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by an instruction execution system. Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted of otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

When the subject matter is embodied in the general context of computer executable instructions the embodiment may comprise program modules executed by one or more systems computers or other devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments.

As may be appreciated based on the disclosure there exists a need in the art for a system that electronically and automatically collects paper consumption data and facilitates the selection of reforestation projects that offset the paper consumed. Further there exists a need in the art for an automated system that accurately calculates the scaling factor used to convert the consumed paper into fractional equivalent trees by taking into account resource specific and project specific parameters. In addition there exists a need in the art for an automated system that shares the efforts of data collection calculation and ordering so that the wheel isn t reinvented each time a paper user seeks to install a restorative contribution to the environment. Also there exists a need in the art for a system that reliable certifies the quality of work performed by a reforestation project. There also exists a need in the art for a system providing educational data related to the available reforestation projects so that a customer can choose an appropriate project for their organization. Finally there exists a need in the art for tracking non paper resource consumption and providing choices for planting accurate environmental offsets with offset projects that restore the environment upstream of the supplier of the consumed resources.

In an embodiment referring to an architecture for an automated system for transacting environmental offsets may include printer data collector retrieving resource consumption data not shown from printing equipment via PRTS and storing the data in consumption database . The PRTS may be a print monitoring software a printer OEM s meter billing data or a 3rd party s meter billing data. Transactional server may be integrated with PRTS using API Application Programming Interface for retrieving the resource consumption data. Consumption database may store quantity and specifications of consumed resource such as paper count paper size paper weight paper quality recycled fiber content customer ID printer ID and other parameters necessary to assign consumption to a customer. Consumed resource may also be ink toner or electricity and the related resource consumption data may record ink levels toner levels or kWh of electricity.

Continuing with in an embodiment offset calculator may retrieve data associated with consumed resource from consumption database and apply scaling factors depending on the distinctive characteristics of one or more of reforestation offset projects comprising offset projects and thereby calculating an environmental offset not shown and storing the result in environmental offset database . The scaling factor may be compounded from a conversion efficiency provided by the offset projects specifications associated with the consumed resource such as page size default parameters provided internally by the system and factors relating to the environmental offset strategy provided internally by the system see . The conversion efficiency provided by offset projects may form an important part in determining an accurate scaling factor that is specific to the resource consumed and the offset project resulting for example in a more accurate equivalency in tree count. Conversion efficiency may include a sapling survival rate a tree dimension a tree species a tree growth rate and or an ecosystem productivity. For example an offset project having a lower sapling survival rate may require a larger over planting effort in order to achieve an environmental offset equivalent to an offset project having a higher sapling survival rate. see .

Continuing in an embodiment an environmental offset strategy may include an internal scaling parameter taking into account the customer s restoration objectives. For instance one offset strategy may be to replace lost trees by restoring original tree volume at some future date which may be accomplished by a tree farm. Another strategy may be to restore healthy forest acreage including biological diversity. Other possible offset strategies include offsetting an atmospheric carbon load of the consumed resource by planting biomass offsetting an energy used to harvest and manufacture the printing resource by generating renewable energy and offsetting an energy used to operate the printing equipment by generating renewable energy. Advantageously by applying a scaling factor that is resource specific and project specific an automated system for transacting environmental offsets may accurately adapt to changing knowledge about ecosystems and forests.

Continuing with in an embodiment default parameters provided internally by the system may include standard values when a data value is not available and may include a tree to pulp manufacturing efficiency. For example a groundwood process and a freesheet process may vary in the amount of paper produced by a factor of two. Additionally the paper quality that may be described in the resource consumption database may affect the scaling factor needed to obtain an accurate STE. Therefore system may provide a calculator which provides improved accuracy over online calculators and standard assumptions for STE equivalency.

The environmental offset may be an amount of a restorative process planted or installed by one more offset projects located upstream of supplier . Each offset project may maintain a record of available capacity for planting environmental offsets and may update transactional server as necessary. For example offset calculator may retrieve a page count for customer A from consumption database and a conversion efficiency from offset project and may calculate an equivalent tree count for offsetting the environmental impact of the pages consumed by customer A and then assign or order that equivalent tree count to be planted at project . Alternately offset project may be a renewable energy generator consumed resource may be kWh of electricity consumed by printing equipment supplier may be a power plant and offset calculator may calculate an environmental offset in the form of kWh of renewable energy to be planted or installed by offset project

In an embodiment referring still to offset calculator may compare data associated with consumed resource to data retrieved from environmental database and determine whether an environmental offset has already been calculated for consumed resource . Offset Calculator may also compare ordered offsets and planted offsets imported from offset projects to data associated with consumed resource and determine whether an environmental offset has already been calculated for consumed resource where an ordered offset is an environmental offset that has been ordered assigned by customer to be planted by an offset project and a planted offset is an environmental offset that has been ordered and planted installed by an offset project . Additionally the status of an environmental offset that has been ordered or planted may be updated accordingly in environmental offset database . Should a parameter needed for determining a scaling factor not be available such as paper size missing from the printer consumption data a default value e.g. 8.5 in. 11 in. may be substituted for use by the calculator.

Customer may access user interface importing data from environmental offset database for viewing the paper footprint and equivalent trees associated with consumed resource wishing to be assigned and may also view historical data for customer see . Customer may also access user interface for viewing the status available capacity offset project capacity and pricing information related to offset projects including the status of ordered offsets. Transactional server may deliver to customer through user interface contextual data giving context to descriptions of the status of projects where the contextual data may comprise forest maps from Global Forest Watch cultural data environmental data and economic data in order to assist customer is selecting an offset project . Once customer has chosen where to assign environmental offsets associated with consumed resource orders may be placed to the chosen offset projects.

Alternatively instead of the user interface retrieving pre calculated offsets customer may select the desired projects first and trigger environmental offsets to be calculated on the fly where offset calculator retrieves updated offset project capacity not shown and conversion efficiency from the selected offset projects calculates environmental offsets for new unscaled data associated with consumed resource and delivers the environmental offsets to user interface for confirmation by customer . If there is insufficient capacity in a selected offset project to plant the environmental offset the customer may select another project and trigger a recalculation of options. Should project status indicate that some ordered offsets have not yet been planted customer may elect to move those offsets to another project depending on agreements operating within the automated system for transacting environmental offsets .

Continuing with in an embodiment transaction bundler may aggregate and hold multiple customer orders until an ordering threshold and or maximum delay have been exceeded then permit the order to flow through to offset projects thereby reducing the number of transactions required and associated accounting overhead . Customer may schedule future orders through user interface based on expected resource consumption or by spreading out the offsetting of consumption that has already occurred. Other methods of bundling customer orders may include transacting orders associated with particular customers immediately or assigning different delays or volumetric thresholds based on project customer time of year or projections of future orders. Alternately transaction bundler may be omitted and a project interface not shown substituted to interface between offset projects and transactional server . More details on the operation of transaction bundler are included below in the description of .

Additionally in an embodiment a common 3 party certification party may be enlisted for system to uniformly verify that all offset projects are planting correctly and maintaining a steady conversion efficiency. Such uniform certification may create wide acceptance for and customer confidence in an automated system for transacting environmental offsets and lead to improved methods and dialogue among all partners.

Referring to in an embodiment a computer flowchart for an automated system for transacting environmental offsets may be divided into steps for calculating an environmental offset and steps for a ordering an environmental offset. Starting at step step may link transactional server to the printer resource tracking system PRTS and retrieve resource consumption data. Next step may store the resource consumption data in consumption database and may tag an amount of consumed resource with a batch date customer ID and or printer ID. The amount of consumed resource may be a page count a page size kWh of electrical energy ink volume toner volume or other consumption that a customer wants to offset.

Continuing with Step may compare old and new consumption data to determine which if any has yet to be converted into an environmental offset. Step may link the transactional server to offset projects and may retrieve a conversion efficiency in order to derive a scaling factor and may retrieve ordered offsets planted offsets and offset project capacity so that the calculator may apply scaling factors only to resource consumption data that has yet to be ordered or planted while making sure the offset project has enough capacity to support the environmental offset associated with consumed resource . Step may also retrieve an updated project status so that a customer may view status information at user interface . Finally step may calculate using calculator environmental offsets for consumed resources and may store the results in environmental offset database . The offset project capacity may also be stored in step ending at step .

Continuing with in an embodiment starting with step a customer may log into user interface in step . In step environmental offset database may be searched for new offsets associated with customer and which have not yet been ordered or planted. If there are no new environmental offsets step may offer customer an option to re assign an ordered offset to another project . If there are offsets to be assigned or moved step may retrieve offset project capacity and may display options to customer for ordering and confirming a transaction with one or more offset projects having available capacity. If step finds no unplanted offsets to move or if customer is finished with the session at user interface the assignment process may be ended at step .

Alternately referring to in an embodiment environmental offsets may be pre calculated and retrieved by customer via user interface or environmental offsets may be calculated on the fly only for projects that customer is interested in triggering the required data. Multiple customers may access multiple user interfaces at different locations and connect to multiple offset projects spreading the costs of an automated system for transacting environmental offsets over many customers offset projects and data partners and aggregating a wealth of information and options in one place.

Referring to in an embodiment printer resource consumption data display may be a dashboard displaying resource consumption data from printing equipment showing page count for different toner colors toner levels customer ID printer type location meter reads and other parameters useful in calculating environmental offsets for consumed resource . To isolate recent consumption previous readings for a consumed resource may be subtracted from current readings of consumed resource to get new unscaled data. Alternately consumed resources may be stored periodically and charted by day or hour. Data display may be accessed by administrative portals portals for data providers and or customer portals depending on permissions and privacy settings not shown .

Referring to in an embodiment a graph of transaction bundler may illustrate the way customer orders may be aggregated into bulk orders for reducing the number of transactions required between transactional server and offset projects . In an embodiment an ordering threshold may be set for a particular offset project . In the first transaction ordering threshold is set at four units and customer A s first order of two units combines with customer B s first two orders of one and three units to trigger a bundled transaction of six units within maximum time delay assigned to each order. In the second transaction customer A s order of three units may wait for delay and be finally transacted when no other orders follow. In the third transaction customer B s order of five units may be immediately transacted since the order size is greater than ordering threshold . Other methods of bundling customer orders may include transacting orders associated with particular customers immediately or assigning different delays or volumetric thresholds based on project customer time of year or projections of future orders.

Referring to in an embodiment customer dashboard may be accessed by customer though user interface for viewing the paper consumed and equivalent trees environmental offset for customer . Customer dashboard may display environmental offsets waiting to be assigned and offsets already assigned. Reforestation projects which are active with planted orders for customer may be displayed or reforestation projects eligible for assignment of unassigned environmental offsets may be displayed. Other pages of the dashboard may allow the customer to access contextual data such as maps of forest gain and loss offered by Global Forest Watch or to place offset orders with various reforestation projects . Payment procedures may be offered through dashboard and confirmation of received orders may be received from selected projects .

Referring to in an embodiment shown is an example calculation and a calculator flowchart. Starting at step in transactional server not shown may select a customer in step . Step may retrieve data associated with consumed resources for that customer and by its originating printer as shown in printer resource consumption data display . Raw data may be the usable portions of printer data as collected by printer data collector and stored in consumption database . Step may compare consumption data for the customer to existing environmental offset data. Step may pass new unscaled data to offset calculator if the data is new and otherwise proceed to step if the data for that customer is old. Step determines if there are other customers to be processed within the resource consumption data ending if not and returning to step if there are other customer s data to process.

Continuing with in an embodiment in step calculator may collect inputs for deriving scaling data from offset projects user interface and internal programming internal to transaction server . Inputs from the offset project may include offset project capacity conversion efficiency and the dependents of conversion efficiency including survival rate tree species tree size tree growth rate and ecosystem productivity. Inputs from the customer via user interface may include choice of offset project future offsets desiring to be ordered and customer preferences. Inputs from internal programming may include default parameters tree to pulp manufacturing efficiency and or factors related to an environmental offset strategy. In step offset calculator calculates an environmental offset which may appear as seen in example data calculation . Step may store the environmental offset in environmental database .

Referring to in an embodiment a conversion pricing dashboard may be available in whole or in part to customers transactional system administrators and or project personnel. Conversion pricing dashboard may depict the relationship between conversion efficiency and STE price last column where conversion efficiency of offset project may depend on survival rate 3column tree species 2column and tree width and height. Each row may represent a project location and associated offset project name 1column . STE price may be approximately inversely proportional to survival rate and lower survival rates may require over planting or purchasing more STE units in order to plant the environmental offset ordered by the customer.

Referring to in an embodiment contextual data may be provided to the customer via user interface to aid in deciding which offset project to order from. For example maps provided by Global Forest Watch may be included in the automated system for transacting environmental offsets along with other educational materials. When combined with project status for an offset project a customer new to reforestation may view cultural economic and ecological data such as this gain loss map in order to make a more informed decision in selecting projects for assigning environmental offsets.

Referring to in an embodiment an administrative dashboard showing future commitments may include a graph of cumulative offsets for paper volume planted over time and may include future orders scheduled but not yet planted. Combined with transaction bundler having a planned timing for future orders may enhance the ability of transacting system to level throughput reduce the number of transactions and reduce cost and complexity. The right column may display recent activity for customers data providers offset projects and or correspondence and which may help evaluate system operation and predict future loading.

Referring to in an embodiment data provider dashboard may display cumulative volume for printer fleet and its equivalent in trees for a particular data provider and may display a graph of paper consumed by month. A data provider may be a paper user customer printer OEM or 3party vendor operating a printer management system or having possession of meter billing data or a printer resource tracking system.

Referring to in an embodiment customer management administrative portal may summarize customer status by data provider 2column cumulative pages 3column and activity category. Alternatively other parameters may be summarized such as tree equivalents kWh or environmental offset inception date future orders 

Although the above embodiments have been described in language that is specific to certain structures elements compositions and methodological steps it is to be understood that the technology defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific structures elements compositions and or steps described. Rather the specific aspects and steps are described as forms of implementing the claimed technology. Since many embodiments of the technology can be practiced without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention the invention resides in the claims hereinafter appended.

