---

title: System and method for coordinated remote control of network radio nodes and core network elements
abstract: An embodiment method of routing network traffic includes configuring flow tables of a virtual switch using an OpenFlow protocol. The virtual switch is disposed at a network radio node. The method includes receiving network traffic destined for a user equipment (UE) at the virtual switch and establishing, by a packet data convergence protocol (PDCP) layer, a data radio bearer (DRB) for the network traffic between a virtual port on the virtual switch and the UE. The method also includes routing the network traffic over the DRB from the virtual port, through the PDCP layer, and toward the UE according to the flow tables.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09578593&OS=09578593&RS=09578593
owner: Futurewei Technologies, Inc.
number: 09578593
owner_city: Plano
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140611
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 833 650 titled Software Defined LTE filed on Jun. 11 2013 which application is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to a software defined wireless network and in particular embodiments to a system and method for coordinated remote control of network radio nodes and core network elements.

Driven largely by smart phones tablets and video streaming the amount of wireless data handled by wireless networks has risen markedly and is expected to continue to rise by orders of magnitude over the next ten years. In addition to the sheer volume of data the number of devices is expected to continue to grow exponentially possibly reaching into the billions of devices along with radically higher data rates. Different applications will place different requirements on the performance of future wireless networks. Future wireless networks are expected to be highly flexible highly efficient open and customizable for customers and consumers.

In a Long Term Evolution LTE wireless network the eNodeB eNB is responsible for running the radio resource control RRC protocol and is in charge of many decisions such as commanding the user equipment UE to measure neighboring cells in a particular priority order and initiating handover to neighbors based on a policy. In today s products this policy is often hard coded with limited means of configuration and is difficult to change.

3GPP LTE and Wi Fi use centralized architectures where user sessions are managed in highly centralized data centers or central offices. Due to the proliferation of highly functional user equipment UE that allow users to multi task for example surf the internet instant message and stream videos at the same time the handling of user sessions in the data centers or central office can approach the performance limits of the data centers or central office.

In addition with the increased deployment of small cells het net machine to machine M2M and networks of devices where thousands or millions of devices are attached there are a large number of user sessions some of which are more local i.e. originate and terminate in nearby locations while others are more distant. Each of these devices may be mobile. A core network anchors the Internet protocol IP sessions centrally and thus is able to maintain an IP session while a device transitions between layer 2 anchor points. Furthermore the core network architecture which is based on tunnels to a fixed anchor point is cumbersome and inefficient. The packet data network PDN gateway PGW becomes a bottleneck in terms of the number of sessions that can be managed and it becomes a central point of failure because it maintains so much state about the mobile nodes MNs .

An embodiment method of routing network traffic includes configuring flow tables of a virtual switch using an OpenFlow protocol. The virtual switch is disposed at a network radio node. The method includes receiving network traffic destined for a user equipment UE at the virtual switch and establishing by a packet data convergence protocol PDCP layer a data radio bearer DRB for the network traffic between a virtual port on the virtual switch and the UE. The method also includes routing the network traffic over the DRB from the virtual port through the PDCP layer and toward the UE according to the flow tables.

An embodiment network radio node includes an OpenFlow switch and a PDCP module. The OpenFlow switch is configured to receive network traffic destined for a UE from a router. The OpenFlow switch includes a secure channel over which a flow entry and an associated action are received according to an OpenFlow protocol. The OpenFlow switch also includes flow tables configured to store the flow entry. The PDCP module is configured to receive an initialization instruction and establish a DRB between a virtual port on the OpenFlow switch and the UE according to the initialization instruction. The OpenFlow switch is further configured to route the network traffic over the DRB according to the flow entry and the associated action.

An embodiment communication system includes a central software defined network SDN controller a network radio node and a plurality of routers. The central SDN controller includes a radio resource control RRC module. The network radio node is configurable by the RRC module according to a routing policy. The network radio node is configured to serve a UE. The plurality of routers are configurable by the central SDN controller according to an OpenFlow protocol and the routing policy. The plurality of routers are configured to route network traffic destined for the UE to the network radio node.

The making and using of embodiments are discussed in detail below. It should be appreciated however that the present invention provides many applicable inventive concepts that may be embodied in a wide variety of specific contexts. The specific embodiments discussed are merely illustrative of specific ways to make and use the invention and do not limit the scope of the invention.

The advent of cloud based networking has complicated the ability of future wireless networks to satisfy expected demands for higher throughput lower latencies lower energy lower costs and drastically more numerous connections. Cloud based networking fundamentally redefines the endpoints and the time frame for which network services are provisioned. It requires the network be much more nimble flexible and scalable. Thus technologies such as network function virtualization NFV and software defined networking SDN have become increasingly important in building future wireless networks. NFV enables network functions that are traditionally tied to hardware to run on a cloud computing infrastructure in a data center. The separation of the data plane the control plane and the management plane from the hardware infrastructure will be a cornerstone of future wireless network architectures. One benefit is the ability to elastically support network functional demands. SDN is an architectural framework for creating intelligent programmable networks where the control planes and the data planes are decoupled network intelligence and state are logically centralized and the underlying network infrastructure is abstracted from the application.

It is realized herein that SDN concepts are applicable to an LTE network and any future wireless network in the future. An SDN allows the RRC protocol to be centralized in a commodity re programmable server where the policy decisions generated by the RRC can be altered easily by manufacturers operators or both without having to deploy new network radio nodes i.e. e Node Bs eNBs . The SDN also centralizes routing decisions providing flexibility in routing adjustments that allow more dynamic and direct routing for mobile traffic while also allowing independent distribution of data flow and control. This reduces possibly eliminates the need for centralized tunnel aggregation points. It is further realized herein the use of OpenFlow enabled switches allows deployment of the SDN in networks without the need for standardization or product cycles from manufacturers and vendors.

The existing 3GPP architecture separates some amount of control into a mobility management entity MME which is responsible for exchanging non access stratum NAS messages with the UE and controlling the establishment of tunnels between the eNB and core network elements such as serving gateways SGWs . However the packet routing function in a 3GPP network is limited to using tunnels while many other methods of getting packets to their destination such as flat routing layer 2 VLANs or optical circuits are precluded from use.

It is realized herein that by using OpenFlow protocols to control the eNB and the core network elements an architecture can be created that makes air interface mobility management decisions in concert with packet redirection and rerouting in the core network. The architecture can be embodied in wireless networks and devices such as LTE wireless eNBs and core networks.

The evolved packet core EPC is a network architecture that provides a functional framework for handling user data and user sessions for multiple users i.e. UEs. The EPC connects an access network such as an LTE access network to one or more external networks. External networks can include the Internet corporate networks and the IP multimedia core network subsystem IMS . The access network typically includes multiple radio nodes to which the various UEs connect to access the external networks or to communicate with other UEs on the access network.

The current evolved packet core EPC requires all packets to be routed through fixed packet data network PDN gateway P GW . This is inefficient for local traffic. For example traffic between two UEs on the same eNB often traverses two different and very distant P GWs.

SGWs transport IP data traffic between UEs and external networks. The SGWs serve as the interface between radio nodes and the EPC and also serve as an anchor point for UE sessions and for layer 2 mobility among radio nodes. The SGWs are logically connected to the PGW. The PGW anchors IP sessions for the UEs and serves as an interface between external networks and the EPC. The PGW transports IP data traffic to and from the external networks which are sometimes referred to as PDNs.

It is realized herein an SDN for LTE can in certain embodiments provide customized mobility management and customized core network routing such as in network sharing. These features may also be desirable for mobile virtual network operators MVNOs . For example some wholesale network operators require traffic to be routed on separate virtual local area networks VLANs for each partner. In certain embodiments such as over the top OTT partnerships and new business models the SDN provides for special treatment of certain network traffic. In other embodiments the SDN can be used in analytics based optimization as is found in data driven self organizing networks SONs .

eNBs through are network radio nodes and are sometimes referred to as access points or Node Bs. UEs through N are sometimes referred to as stations mobile stations mobiles terminals users or subscribers. Controllers and are central SDN controllers configured to control routers and and eNBs through .

Controller includes a centralized RRC module configured to make policy decisions according to the RRC protocol. Controller then generates and sends control messages to router and radio node via the OpenFlow protocol. The addition of OpenFlow control capability presents alternative traffic routing to general packet radio service GPRS tunneling protocol GTP . Virtual switch is configurable by controller using the OpenFlow protocol.

Radio node includes a virtual switch a relay a packet data convergence protocol PDCP layer a radio link control RLC layer a media access control MAC layer and a physical PHY layer . PDCP layer is a layer 2 data plane protocol implemented in UEs and radio nodes i.e. eNBs. PDCP layer sends and receives packets among UEs and eNBs over an air interface. PDCP layer works with other layer 2 protocols including RLC layer and MAC layer . PDCP layer operates on top of RLC layer and transfers uplink UL packets to the core network through relay virtual switch and router . PDCP layer receives downlink DL packets from router and sends those to RLC layer which passes them to the UEs through MAC layer and PHY layer .

RRC in controller configures PDCP layer and RLC layer . The configuring is done over a control channel using an OpenFlow protocol. Likewise MAC layer and PHY layer are configurable by controller via another control channel which also uses the OpenFlow protocol. Below are examples of control messages generated by controller for configuring various protocol layers using OpenFlow protocols.

System information blocks are configured by the controller in eNB. The controller sends OFP PACKET OUT messages with experimental action. The messages include periodic scheduling information. The system information blocks are mostly transparent to eNB except cdma2000 system time. eNB finds it and updates it before every SIB8 broadcast.

New RLC or PDCP instances are set up according to the control message below. OFP PACKET OUT with another experimental action is used. Setup is performed simultaneously with the sending of a RRC message to the UE.

Security is set up according to the control message below. Ciphering and integrity protection are implemented in PDCP layer . OFP PACKET OUT with another experimental action is used. Security can be set up simultaneously with the transmission of the security mode command message to the UE.

PDCP layer establishes data radio bearers DRBs over which data packets travel between radio node and UEs. Each of DRBs is established in relay between a virtual port on virtual switch and a UE. The DRB flows through PDCP layer RLC layer MAC layer and PHY layer . Each layer processes the data packets as they flow up or down the protocol stack. Similarly PDCP layer establishes signal radio bearers SRBs and . The SRBs are used for control signaling between radio node and the UEs it serves. Similar to DRBs the SRBs flow through the protocol stack. SRBs and flow from controller to the UEs through PDCP layer RLC layer MAC layer and PHY layer . SRB flows from controller through MAC layer and PHY layer .

Controller virtual switch PDCP layer RLC layer MAC layer PHY layer and RRC can be implemented in one or more processors one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGAs dedicated logic circuitry or any combination thereof all collectively referred to as a processor. The respective functions for controller virtual switch PDCP layer RLC layer MAC layer PHY layer and RRC can be stored as instructions in non transitory memory for execution by the processor.

The bus may be one or more of any type of several bus architectures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus video bus or the like. The CPU may comprise any type of electronic data processor. The memory may comprise any type of non transitory system memory such as static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM read only memory ROM a combination thereof or the like. In an embodiment the memory may include ROM for use at boot up and DRAM for program and data storage for use while executing programs.

The mass storage may comprise any type of non transitory storage device configured to store data programs and other information and to make the data programs and other information accessible via the bus . The mass storage may comprise for example one or more of a solid state drive hard disk drive a magnetic disk drive an optical disk drive or the like.

The video adapter and the I O interface provide interfaces to couple external input and output devices to the processing unit . As illustrated examples of input and output devices include a display coupled to the video adapter and a mouse keyboard printer coupled to the I O interface . Other devices may be coupled to the processing unit and additional or fewer interface cards may be utilized. For example a serial interface such as Universal Serial Bus USB not shown may be used to provide an interface for a printer.

The processing unit also includes one or more network interfaces which may comprise wired links such as an Ethernet cable or the like and or wireless links to access nodes or different networks. The network interfaces allow the processing unit to communicate with remote units via the networks. For example the network interfaces may provide wireless communication via one or more transmitters transmit antennas and one or more receivers receive antennas. In an embodiment the processing unit is coupled to a local area network or a wide area network for data processing and communications with remote devices such as other processing units the Internet remote storage facilities or the like.

At a receiving step network traffic destined for a UE is received at the virtual switch. A PDCP layer establishes a DRB for the network traffic at an establishing step . The DRB connects a virtual port on the virtual switch with the UE. The virtual port is configured by the controller according to the OpenFlow protocol. The traffic is then routed over the DRB according to the flow tables in the virtual switch at a routing step . The method ends at an end step .

Several use cases for the core network are discussed below. These include a flat distributed mobility management architecture services including traffic steering lawful intercept QoS routing and mobility management and security. Another use case is cross technology radio resource management per flow HetNets. Other use cases include a simplified platform for operational support systems and network sharing.

While this invention has been described with reference to illustrative embodiments this description is not intended to be construed in a limiting sense. Various modifications and combinations of the illustrative embodiments as well as other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to persons skilled in the art upon reference to the description. It is therefore intended that the appended claims encompass any such modifications or embodiments.

