---

title: Devices, methods, and computer readable storage devices for collecting information and sharing information associated with session flows between communication devices and servers
abstract: Information associated with session flows between communication devices and servers is collected and shared. A request is generated for data having predefined attributes within session flows occurring between multiple communication devices and a server over a communication network. The request is sent to a controller having access to information indicating network elements within the communication network traversed by the session flows. The controller selects a network element from among the network elements traversed by the session flows and retrieves the data from the selected network element.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09491031&OS=09491031&RS=09491031
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 09491031
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140506
---
The present disclosure relates generally to communication and more particularly to collection of information related to web usage of communication devices.

Currently custom web applications are used to gather relevant business information for on line web stores. These applications typically require a user to log in to his or her account via a web server. Business information associated with a user is tracked by examining the user s browsing history for a particular on line account.

For example business information concerning usage of a particular home improvement business having an on line store such as Lowe s is captured for users having an established on line account with that store. This information may be made available to Lowe s . Business information available to another home improvement business having an on line store such as Home Depot may be captured similarly for users having an established on line account with that store and such information may be made available to Home Depot .

Collecting business information in this manner limits the usefulness of the business information. In particular the business information captured is only made available to the store with which the user has a web account. Thus for example business information captured for users having on line accounts with Lowe s is not made available to Home Depot and vice versa.

Applications are available that collect business information by tracking the browsing history associated with a user s device. However if the user switches to other devices there is no way to track the browsing history of the user across the various devices. Further such applications typically require downloading of software onto a user s device to perform such tracking. Depending upon the device settings the device may treat the software as malware and reject downloading it. In addition such applications are specific to a vendor such that the collected business information is only available to the vendor providing the tracking application.

It should be appreciated that this Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form the concepts being further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of this disclosure nor is it intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

Another illustrative embodiment a method is provided for collecting and sharing information associated with session flows between communication devices and servers. The method includes generating by a processor a request for data having predefined attributes within session flows occurring between multiple communication devices and a server over a communication network. The method further includes sending the request to a controller having access to information indicating network elements within the communication network traversed by the session flows. The controller selects a network element from among the network elements traversed by the session flows and retrieves the data from the selected network element and the retrieved data is received from the controller.

According to another illustrative embodiment is provided for collecting and sharing information associated with session flows between communication devices and servers. The device includes a processor and a memory. The memory has instructions stored thereon which when executed by the processor cause the processor to perform operations. The operations include generating a request for data having predefined attributes within session flows occurring between multiple communication devices and a server over a communication network and sending the request to a controller having access to information indicative of network elements within the communication network traversed by the session flows. The controller selects a network element from among the network elements traversed by the session flows and retrieves the data from the selected network element and the retrieved data is received from the controller.

According to another illustrative embodiment a computer readable storage device has instructions stored thereon which when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform operations for collecting and sharing information associated with session flows between communication devices and servers. The operations include generating a request for data having predefined attributes within session flows occurring between multiple communication devices and a server over a communication network and sending the request to a controller having access to information indicative of network elements within the communication network traversed by the session flows. The controller selects a network element from among the network elements traversed by the session flows and retrieves the data from the selected network element. The retrieved data is received from the controller.

Detailed illustrative embodiments are disclosed herein. It must be understood that the embodiments described and illustrated are merely examples that may be embodied in various and alternative forms and combinations thereof. As used herein the word illustrative is used expansively to refer to embodiments that serve as examples or illustrations. The figures are not necessarily to scale and some features may be exaggerated or minimized to show details of particular components. Specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting.

According to illustrative embodiments a configurable distributed and real time business intelligence application is provided for collecting business information associated with session flows between communication devices and web servers. It should be appreciated that the terminology web server includes not only servers on the world wide web but any server hosting a website with which communication devices can communicate and participate in data session flows via a network such as the Internet.

The embodiments described herein allow for the gathering of business information based on the network activity of multiple users across different networks and different user communication devices. As used herein the terminology business information may include any information that may be relevant to a business concerning a user s network activities such as user identity user location and user browsing history including web sites visited and the duration of each visit as well as products and services viewed. Additionally though the description is directed to the collection of business information it should be appreciated that the techniques described herein may be used to collect information regarding user web activity that is not related to a business concern e.g. information that may be related to a security concern a charitable concern etc.

The business intelligence application described herein leverages Software Defined Networking SDN technology to collect business information. SDN is an emerging technology that allows for the abstraction of network forwarding devices that are distributed throughout a network from a management and control function allowing the management and control function to be centralized. SDN allows network administrators to have programmable central control of network traffic via a central controller without requiring physical access to the network elements through which the network traffic flows. The central controller referred to as a SDN controller may tap into the network elements through which traffic flows to provide for control of traffic flow.

A goal of SDN is to allow network engineers and administrators to respond quickly to changing business requirements. In a software defined network a network administrator can shape traffic from a centralized control console without having to touch individual switches. The administrator can change a network element s rules when necessary. Thus the network administrator can prioritize de prioritize or even block specific types of packets from flowing through a network with a very granular level of control.

While SDN technology is currently available it is largely focused on high scale high density data center networks. According to illustrative embodiments SDN technology is made use of outside of the data center network environment and applied throughout other networks such as campus networks corporate networks Wide Area Networks WAN branch networks cellular networks the Internet and combinations of different networks.

According to illustrative embodiments the network tapping capabilities that are evolving within the SDN framework are leveraged to allow a business intelligence application to request data having predefined attributes within session flows that are established between user communication devices and web servers. In addition the same network tapping primitives may be used to obtain additional information from within session flows using deep packet inspection functions on network elements through which the network traffic is flowing.

Referring now to the figures illustrates a system for collecting and sharing information within session flows between communication devices and web servers according to an illustrative embodiment. A business intelligence application server is in communication with an SDN controller via e.g. an Internet connection . The business intelligence application server and the SDN controller may be implemented with computing devices such as that described below with reference to . The business intelligence application server and the SDN controller may be included within a network such as the Internet or a cloud computing network.

The business intelligence application server is also in communication with user communication devices A and B. To address privacy concerns associated with the technique described herein the users of the communication device A and B may be provided with an option to opt in to having their web session flows monitored by communicating with the business intelligence application server .

The connections between the communication devices A and B and the business intelligence application server may be e.g. wired or wireless Internet connections A and B respectively. The business intelligence application server may also be in communication with the communication devices A and B via a combination of network connections e.g. a cellular network and the Internet.

Although the communication devices A and B are depicted as a mobile phone and a personal computer respectively it should be appreciated that the communication devices may include any user communication device e.g. a personal digital assistant PDA a tablet or any other communication devices capable of communicating with a web server. Also although only two communication devices A and B are shown in for simplicity of illustration it should be appreciated that the disclosure is applicable to any number of communication devices.

The communication device A is in communication with a web server A via network elements A and A. Similarly the communication device B is in communication with a web server B via network elements B and B. The network elements A B A and B may include any network element through which network traffic flows between the web servers A and B and the communication devices A and B respectively. For example the network elements A B A and B may include switches within cellular networks gateways between cellular networks and the Internet etc. Also although depicted as being outside the network the network elements A B A and B may also include network elements within the network such as servers or other components through which network traffic flows between the communication devices A and B and the web servers A and B respectively.

The network elements A and A may belong to the same or a different network than the network elements B and B. Similarly the web servers A and B may belong to the same network or different networks.

The business intelligence application server is in communication with third party servers and databases via e.g. a connection such as an Internet connection. The third party servers and databases may be associated with e.g. merchants having on line stores merchants not having on line stores web service providers government entities etc.

As mentioned above the business intelligence application server is also in communication with the SDN controller via e.g. an Internet connection . According to an illustrative embodiment the business intelligence application Server initiates requests to the SDN controller for data having predefined attributes within session flows between the communication devices A and B and the web servers A and B respectively. The business intelligence application server initiates such requests based e.g. on inquiries from the third party server . Alternatively or in addition the business intelligence application server may initiate requests automatically at predefined intervals e.g. to monitor volume of network traffic not necessarily related to a specific merchant.

The business intelligence application server shares collected data obtained from within the session flows with the third party servers and databases via e.g. an application programming interface API . Third parties such as merchants may use the collected data to initiate suggestions to users promotions etc. Other third parties such as web service providers may user the collected data to forecast network usage demand.

The SDN controller is also in communication with the network elements A B A and B and a network administrator . The network administrator may be implemented with a computing device such as that described below with reference to .

The network administrator controls the flow of data traffic through various network elements A B A and B via the SDN controller . That is the SDN controller selects network elements through which data traffic flows responsive to the direction of the network administer . Accordingly the SDN controller has knowledge of or access to information indicative of the network elements through which data traffic flows between the communication devices A and B and the web servers A and B respectively at any given time.

For example the SDN controller knows that the network traffic between the communication device A and the web server A flows through the network elements A and A. Similarly the SDN controller knows that network traffic between the communication device B and the web server B flows through the network elements B and B.

The SDN controller responds to requests from the business intelligence application server for data having predefined attributes within session flows by selecting a network element through which network traffic is flowing during a web session to tap to obtain data. The SDN controller is always aware of various characteristics of the traffic flow including the source the destination the application type etc. The SDN controller is also aware of the network elements through which traffic is flowing. There may be multiple network elements which the SDN controller may tap . The SDN controller may select one or more network elements to tap based on decision criteria including for example proximity of a network element to a data store performance of the network element available tapping capacity specific tapping capabilities of the network element etc.

Once the SDN controller selects a network element to tap the SDN controller sets a policy in the selected network element to collect data within session flows having predefined attributes. The SDN controller retrieves the collected data from the selected network element e.g. periodically and or in real time.

The data retrieved by the SDN controller is provided to the business intelligence application server periodically and or in real time. As noted above the business intelligence application server shares the retrieved data with third party servers and databases . This sharing may occur periodically in real time or after some analysis of the data by the business intelligence application server as described in further detail below.

As indicated above the business intelligence application server may request data having predefined attributes within session flows between the communication devices A and B and the web servers A and B respectively. These predefined attributes may include e.g. data indicating the identity of a user logged into a web session with a web server data indicating the identity of the communication device being used data indicating applications being used during session flows by each of the users and the merchant browsing history of each user including the names of the web sites visited the length of time each website is visited and information indicating products and or services of each merchant viewed by the user etc. The business intelligence applications server may analyze the retrieved data to determine trends within the session flows e.g. average durations on websites on a user by user basis average duration on websites by all users average bandwidth consumed during a web session on a user by user basis or for all users etc.

As an example the business intelligence application server may request information indicating activity between the communication devices A and B and the web servers A and B related to particular merchant websites such as a Lowe s website and a Home Depot website. Alternatively the business intelligence application server may request information indicating activity on all home improvement websites. The business intelligence application server may determine based on the retrieved data indicating the activity on such websites how often users of the communication devices A and B visited the websites within a given time period how long the users spent visiting the websites what products the user viewed etc. If a user is spending time on multiple home improvement websites such as the Lowe s website and the Home Depot website within a short period of time the business intelligence application server may infer that the user is looking for a specific product and or comparing prices of products. This information may be shared with merchants including not only Lowe s and Home Depot but also other stores carrying similar products via the third party servers and databases . In response such merchants may provide suggestions for products sales promotions coupons etc. to the users of the communication devices A and B whether or not the user visited the websites associated with the merchants.

In addition to collecting data having predefined attributes from selected network elements the SDN controller may perform deep packet inspection functions on the network elements. For example the SDN controller may determine by examining the data packets flowing through the network elements whether there is a virus within the data whether the data needs to be rerouted performing deep packet inspection the amount of bandwidth being used over a given period of time etc. This information may be provided to the network administrator such that appropriate action may be taken e.g. traffic is rerouted . This information may also be provided to the business intelligence application server .

Although the description above refers largely to communications occurring over the Internet it should be appreciated that such communications may occur over other networks e.g. a cellular network in communication with the Internet. A cellular network may operate according a protocol dictated by telecommunications standards such as Global System for Mobile communications GSM and a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS . It should be understood however that such communications may also occur using wireless networks that use any existing or yet to be developed telecommunications technology. For example some other suitable cellular telecommunications technologies include but are not limited to Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM Long Term Evolution LTE and various other 2G 2.5G 3G 4G and greater generation technologies. Examples of suitable data bearers include but are not limited to General Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced Data rates for Global Evolution EDGE the High Speed Packet Access HSPA protocol family such as High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Enhanced Uplink EUL or otherwise termed High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA Evolved HSPA HSPA and various other current and future data bearers.

It should be understood that and the following description are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspect of some embodiments of the present disclosure can be implemented. While the description includes a general context of computer executable instructions the present disclosure can also be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software in addition to or instead of computer readable instructions.

The term application or variants thereof is used expansively herein to include routines program modules program components data structures algorithms and the like. Applications can be implemented on various system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor systems minicomputers mainframe computers personal computers handheld computing devices microprocessor based programmable consumer electronics combinations thereof and the like. The terminology computer readable media and variants thereof as used in the specification and claims include non transitory storage media. Storage media can include volatile and or non volatile removable and or non removable media such as for example RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CDROM DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium excluding propagating signals that can be used to store information that can be accessed by the components shown in

Referring to the computing device includes a processor . The processor can be any commercially available or custom microprocessor. Although only one processor is shown for simplicity of illustration it should be appreciated that there may be multiple processors which could include distributed processors or parallel processors in a single machine or multiple machines. The processor may be used in supporting a virtual processing environment. Also the processor may include a state machine an application specific integrated circuit ASIC programmable gate array PGA including a Field PGA or state machine.

The processor executes instructions stored in the memory to perform operations. It should be appreciated that performance of these operations may include the processor performing the operations directly and or facilitating directing or cooperating with another device or component to perform the operations.

Referring again to the processor receives opt in communications from the communication devices A and B via I O Data Ports . The processor also generates and transmits requests for data having predetermined attributes to the SDN controller and receives the requested data via the I O Data Ports .

According to an illustrative embodiment the processor analyzes the retrieved data e.g. to determine trends in the data as described above. The processor transmits requested data to third party servers and databases via the I O Data Ports . The I O Data Ports can be implemented with e.g. an interface including an antenna or other suitable type of transceiver through which data and signals may be transmitted and received wired and or wirelessly.

The computing device also includes a physical hard drive . The processor communicates with the memory and the hard drive via e.g. an address data bus not shown . The memory is is representative of the overall hierarchy of memory devices containing the software and data used to implement the functionality of the device . The memory can include but is not limited to the types of memory devices described above. As shown in the memory may include several categories of software and data used in the device including applications a database an operating system OS and input output I O device drivers .

The I O device drivers may include various routines accessed through at least one of the OS by the applications to communicate with devices and certain memory components.

The applications can be stored in the memory and or in a firmware not shown as executable instructions and can be executed by the processor . The applications include various programs that implement the various features of the device . The applications may include an application for requesting data having predefined attributes within session flows determining trends in the collected data and sharing the data and information reflecting the trends with the third party servers and databases .

The database represents the static and dynamic data used by the applications the OS the I O device drivers and other software programs that may reside in the memory . The database may be used to store e.g. attributes defining what data is to be requested retrieved data determined data trends etc.

While the memory is illustrated as residing proximate the processor it should be understood that at least a portion of the memory can be a remotely accessed storage system for example another server on network a remote hard disk drive a removable storage medium combinations thereof and the like. Thus any of the data applications and or software described above can be stored within the memory and or accessed via network connections to other data processing systems not shown that may include a local area network LAN a metropolitan area network MAN or a wide area network WAN for example.

Although not illustrated it should be appreciated that the SDN controller may be implemented with a computing device similar to that shown in . For example the SDN controller may contain a processor and a memory having applications including instructions which when executed by the processor cause the processor to perform operations for selecting network elements retrieving requested data from the network elements providing the retrieved data to the business intelligence application server performing deep packet inspection on the network elements and communicating with the network administrator as described above.

Referring to the method begins at step at which a request is generated for data having predefined attributes within session flows between multiple communication devices such as the communication devices A and B and at least one web server such as the web servers A and B. The request may be generated by the business intelligence application server e.g. in response to an inquiry for such data from a third party. Such a request may be generated in real time in response to the inquiry. Alternatively the business intelligence application server may generate such requests based on predefined rules.

At step the request for the data is sent to the SDN controller via e.g. the Internet connection . At step the SDN controller selects a network element from which to retrieve the requested data. For example the SDN controller may select the network element A and or A o retrieve data from a session flow between the communication device A and the web server A and the SDN controller may select the network element B and or B to retrieve data from a session flow between the communication device B and the web server B.

At step the SDN controller retrieves the requested data and at step the SDN controller provides the requested data to the business intelligence application server . The business intelligence application server may analyze the requested data e.g. to determine trends in the data at step . At step the business intelligence application server forwards the requested data and the results of analysis to the third party servers and databases . This may occur automatically in real time or periodically or upon request by a third party.

There are many benefits associated with the network based business intelligence application described above. For example this technique may easily expanded to collect data from different network sources agnostic of network technology used by any particular user such as a Virtual Private Network VPN the Internet remote access wireless connections etc. This technique does not require expensive network monitoring solution deployment. The information obtained using the business intelligence application can be used to create innovative and revenue generating applications in different contexts e.g. a consumer service context an enterprise application context etc.

The law does not require and it is economically prohibitive to illustrate and teach every possible embodiment of the present claims. Hence the above described embodiments are merely illustrative illustrations of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the invention. Variations modifications and combinations may be made to the above described embodiments without departing from the scope of the claims. All such variations modifications and combinations are included herein by the scope of this disclosure and the following claims.

