---

title: Aeroacoustic duster
abstract: The invention disclosed herein provides for high particle removal rate and/or heat transfer from surfaces. The device removes particulate matter from a surface using a bounded vortex generated over the surface, with suction in the vortex center and jets for blowing air along the periphery. The jets are tilted in the tangential direction to induce vortex motion within the suction region. The vortex is said to be bounded because streamlines originating in the downward jets are entrained back into the central vortex.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09480375&OS=09480375&RS=09480375
owner: The University of Vermont & State Agricultural College
number: 09480375
owner_city: Burlington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140226
---
 The U.S. Government has a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of Grant NNX08AZ07A awarded by NASA. 

The present application is related to claims the earliest available effective filing date s from and incorporates by reference in its entirety all subject matter of the following listed application s the Related Applications to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith and the present application also claims the earliest available effective filing date s from and also incorporates by reference in its entirety all subject matter of any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Related Application s to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith 

These teachings relate generally to a system and method for high particle removal rate from surfaces with low energy expenditure. More specifically these teachings relate to all normal bounded vortex for creating a high shear stress vortex for high particle removal rates. In addition the use of bound vortex impingement is shown to provide intense localized and well controlled heat and mass transfer enhancement.

Conventional vacuum cleaners make a relatively high impact contact with the surface being cleaned. Hence conventional vacuum cleaners cause considerable surface wear. In addition conventional vacuum cleaners and brushes have recently been cited as a source of bacteria breeding areas. Therefore there exists a need for dust mitigation in residential and industrial applications subject to dust build up or for applications for optical materials or delicate electronic instrumentation for which surface contact is undesirable.

In addition air jet impingement is widely used to enhance heating cooling and drying processes. The procedure provides the heat transfer rates required to anneal metal and plastic sheets temper glass and cool turbine blades and electrical components. Air jet impingement also facilitates the required mass transfer to dry paper textile veneer and film materials. Thus an improved heating cooling and drying process provides the possibility of increased manufacturing productivity and production quality.

The foregoing and other problems are overcome and other advantages are realized in accordance with the presently preferred embodiments of these teachings. The aero acoustic duster device is intended to provide for high particle removal rate from surfaces with low energy expenditure relative to competing vacuum based devices. The device removes particulate matter from a surface using a wall normal standing vortex. The wall normal standing vortex is generated over the surface with suction in the vortex center and jets for blowing air along the periphery. The jets are tilted in the tangential direction to induce vortex motion within the suction region. The vortex is said to be bonded or wall normal because streamlines originating in the jets are entrained back into the central vortex. The wall normal vortex acts to enhance shear stress under the suction region hence increasing the ability of the air flow to entrain particles.

In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention an apparatus for efficiently removing dust particles is provided. The apparatus includes bounded vortex generator for generating a wall normal standing vortex. The bounded vortex generator includes a plurality of tilted jets for providing tangential air flow across a dusted substrate and a vacuum port for vacuuming dust excited by the tangential air flow combination.

The invention is also directed towards a system for removing dust particles. The system may include a tweeter having an acoustic generator for generating sound waves. The acoustic generator includes at least one continuous wave CW acoustic generator and at least one frequency modulated FM acoustic generator. The system also includes a bounded vortex generator coupled to the tweeter. The tweeter includes an acoustic emitter for emitting acoustic energy a vacuum port for removing dust and a plurality of tilted jets surrounding the acoustic emitter for providing a tangential air flow to a surface.

The invention is also directed towards an apparatus for efficiently removing dust particles from a surface without direct contact. The apparatus includes a plurality of tilted annular jets arranged around a common axis for providing an air flow substantially tangential to the surface and a circular vacuum port for providing dust removing suction. The circular vacuum port suction and the plurality of tilted annular jets are adaptable to operate conjunctively to form a standing vortex with a high shear stress region tangential to the surface to efficiently remove the dust particles. The apparatus also includes an impingement surface parallel to the surface to be cleaned wherein the impingement surface is separated from the surface to be cleaned by a predetermined distance.

The invention is also directed towards an apparatus for efficiently impinging fluid onto a surface to remove particles and or heat from the surface the apparatus includes a plurality of tilted annular jets arranged around a common axis for providing a radial and tangential air flow component wherein each tilted annular jet comprises a tilt angle with respect to a standing vortex and wherein each tilt angle is proportional with the flow rate ratio. The apparatus also includes a circular vacuum port for providing negative air pressure. The circular vacuum port suction and the plurality of tilted annular jets are adaptable to operate conjunctively to form a standing vortex with a high shear stress region tangential to the surface to efficiently remove the dust particles and or maximize heat transfer away from the surface.

The term comprising means including but not limited to and should be interpreted in the manner it is typically used in the patent context 

The phrases in one embodiment according to one embodiment and the like generally mean that the particular feature structure or characteristic following the phrase may be included in at least one embodiment of the present invention and may be included in more than one embodiment of the present invention importantly such phrases do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment 

If the specification describes something as exemplary or an example it should be understood that refers to a non exclusive example and

If the specification states a component or feature may can could should preferably possibly typically optionally for example or might or other such language be included or have a characteristic that particular component or feature is not required to be included or to have the characteristic.

Referring to there is shown a pictorial illustration of one embodiment of the present non contact aero acoustic duster invention. The duster is suspended about 1 cm above a surface . The underside of the duster has three active regions suction port acoustic emitter and tilted jets each of which is of the form of tangential concentric bands or regions as shown in . The centermost region the suction region leads to a filter similar to that used in traditional vacuum cleaners. The second region is the optional acoustic emitter for emitting acoustic radiation at the surface. The third region consists of N tangentially oriented jets which draw air from the filter exhaust and create a bounded vortex B with suction in the center of the suction port . The vortex B is bounded by stream lines A emanating from jets . It will be understood that for clarity only one streamline A is shown. Furthermore vortex B is also fixed in height by the distance between the surface and the confinement surface C.

The aero acoustic duster can be used in the same manner that a vacuum cleaner is used ranging from small hand held devices to larger push type devices. It may also be incorporated in a mechanical translation device e.g. arm to allow for automated cleaning. Unlike conventional vacuum cleaners the aero acoustic duster makes no contact with the surface being cleaned. Hence the aero acoustic duster does not cause surface wear and is suitable for use on all types of surfaces. The latter fact will make this device particularly useful for dust mitigation in industrial applications subject to dust build up or for applications for optical materials or delicate electronic instrumentation for which contact is undesirable.

The bounded vortex generation device is optimized to provide a strong wall normal standing vortex flow with optimal surface shear stress. Numerical simulations using the computational fluid dynamics software FLUENT to generate the air flow with different number of jets and jet orientations and with different operating pressure differentials.

The number of jets and jet tilt angles that provide the maximum shear stress on the substrate surface which in turn provides the optimal entrainment of particles from the surface is determined initially from numerical simulations using computational fluid dynamics software. However it will be appreciated that any suitable number of jets and jet tilt angles that provide the maximum shear stress on the substrate surface which in turn provides the optimal entrainment of particles from the surface may be used.

Still referring to a notable feature is the tilting of the annular jets in the azimuthal direction which is necessary for generation of the wall normal vortex. For low values of the ratio between the outlet flow rate and the inlet flow rate the streamlines A originating from the jet inlet proceed to the boundary layer along the surface . By contrast at high values of flow rate ratio the jet stream A quickly bends inwards and is entrained into the suction outlet E without significantly influencing the flow near the surface .

Plots of the flow field and substrate surface shear stress at the optimal condition are shown in . Referring also to there is shown a graph of profiles of surface shear stress generated by bounded vortex device in accordance with the invention shown in . Also referring to there is shown a line plot of maximum and average shear stress as function of outlet pressure in accordance with the invention shown in . Twelve prototypes of the bounded vortex generators are shown in each with different N tangentially oriented jets see .

Referring also to there is shown a schematic diagram of a wall normal standing vortex generator in accordance with the invention shown in . Still referring to vortex lines show relative airflow within vortex generator outer shell . It will be appreciated that the bounded vortex generator outer shell may be any suitable material. It will also be appreciated that the internal structure represented by may be any suitable internal structure. Finally it will be understood that the measurements shown in are representative and should not be construed as limiting in any manner.

Still referring to it will be understood that tilted jets may be tilted to any suitable angle to maximize shear stress on surface . For example tilted jets may be tilted to provide 60 degrees tangential component and 15 degrees radial component.

Referring also to there is shown a schematics of aerodynamic test set up for bounded vortex generation device and tweeter . It will be understood that tweeter may be any suitable acoustic generator.

Still referring to an air cross flow was introduced to blow the particles off of the Plexiglas substrate once the particles are acoustically levitated. The result shows nearly 100 particle removal from the area where the particles were subjected to both the acoustic levitation and the air cross flow.

Referring also to there is shown a block diagram of an experimental configuration for testing particle levitation by acoustic radiation emitted normal to a surface in accordance with the invention shown in . The experimental configuration included an oscilloscope a microphone power supply and pre amplifier a microphone a probe tube a function generator an audio power amplifier a computer processing imaging system a video capture card and a CCD camera . A weak air cross flow was introduced to blow the particles off of the test surface once the particles were levitated by tweeter and waveguide respectively. The tests were conducted for both Martian and simulated lunar dust composed of dry particles with diameter ranging from 1 100 mm.

Referring also to there are shown pictorial illustrations of four reflector surfaces used to validate the performance of the present invention shown in silicon wafer commercial solar panel synthetic leather and Teflon respectively. All parameters including L see frequency and acoustic intensity were kept the same for all four materials. Each reflector was exposed to the acoustic excitation and air flow for 90 seconds during the removal operation. Size distributions of the residual particles after removal on the reflectors were studied by direct counting.

Referring also to there are shown pictorial illustrations of a sequence of particle removal of Mars dust stimulants lodged on a silicon wafer in accordance with the present invention shown in . contains 6 images taken in sequence when silicon wafer was chosen as the reflector. The arrow represents the air flow direction. Air flow was continuously on for all 6 images were taken and acoustic signal was continuously turned on starting at images . There was no particles movement at the time when image was taken when only airflow was on. Particles began to be removed as soon as the tweeter item was turned on as shown in images . It will be appreciated that Mars dust simulants were removed effectively by the air flow after the dust simulants were levitated by the standing wave acoustic field.

Referring also to there is shown a pictorial illustration of images of Mars dust stimulants accompanied with the percent number size distribution histogram. Likewise also referring to is a pictorial illustration of images of Lunar dust stimulants accompanied by the percent number size distribution histogram The histograms of Mars and lunar dust simulants indicate that they both have a large component of particles with diameter less than 6 m especially in the 2 4 m range. The percent number of Mars dust stimulants for 4 m is about 25 and that for 2 m

Referring also to and there is shown a pictorial illustration of images of dust particle removal efficiency accompanied by the percent number size distribution histogram for silicon wafer solar panel synthetic leather and Teflon respectively in accordance with the present invention shown in . As shown there are 3 panels for each of the first two are photos of a reflector covered by Mars dust simulant taken under the microscope before and after the dust simulants removal operation by air flow and acoustic standing wave the third panel on the right is the size distribution histogram of the particles residual on the reflector after the removal procedure. Few particles larger than 4 m were left from more than 25 before the operation to less than 9 after the operation on the silicon wafer solar panel and synthetic leather after the removing operation as shown in . Particle number in the range of 2 4 m was also dramatically reduced from 46 to around 20 on silicon wafer and 15 on the solar panel and leather surfaces. Small particles whose size was less than 2 m dominated in the residuals.

Referring also to there is shown a graph of solar panel voltage output versus time as dust is removed in accordance with the present invention shown in . The graph reflects the solar panel voltage output changed with time as the Mars dust simulants were sprayed on the surface and gradually removed from it by the combination of acoustic standing wave effect and airflow method. There was a significant drop in solar panel output voltage below 15 of its initial voltage of 3 V due to the deposition and coverage of Mars dust simulants. The output voltage remained constant in time until the air flow and acoustic field were applied at t 90 s. The output voltage of the solar panel restored quickly to 65 of 3 V in first 20 seconds then increased gradually up to 98.4 after 4 minutes

It should be understood that the foregoing description is only illustrative of the invention. For example optional tweeter shown in may be one or more suitable acoustic generators for generating continuous wave CW acoustic signals at multiple frequencies and amplitudes generating frequency modulated FM acoustic signals at multiple frequencies and amplitudes or a combination of CW and FM acoustic signals for specified time intervals.

Similarly wall normal standing vortex generator shown in may include variable air flow generator and adjustable air flow jets. Thus various alternatives and modifications can be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the invention. Accordingly the present invention is intended to embrace all such alternatives modifications and variances that fall within the scope of the appended claims.

