---

title: Systems and methods for generating a secure locking interface
abstract: Systems and methods for generating a secure locking interface on a touch-screen display of a computing device are disclosed. The system comprises a processor, a memory communicatively coupled to the processor, wherein the memory stores processor-executable instructions, which, on execution, cause the processor to perform operations comprising associating a first attribute and a second attribute to at least one alphanumeric code upon receiving an authentication request for authenticating a user. The first attribute and the second attribute include at least one of colors, shapes, special characters, and images. Further, the operations comprise rendering an alphanumeric interface to the touch-screen display. The alphanumeric interface has the at least one alphanumeric code with the first attribute and the second attribute associated. Further, the operations comprise rendering a keypad interface to the touch-screen display, wherein the keypad interface has an input key for each of the first attribute and the second attribute.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09411465&OS=09411465&RS=09411465
owner: Wipro Limited
number: 09411465
owner_city: Bangalore
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20140723
---
This application claims the benefit of Indian Patent Application Serial No. 2786 CHE 2014 filed Jun. 6 2014 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present subject matter is related in general to a secure interface and in particular but not exclusively to methods and systems for generating a secure locking interface.

Nowadays a number of financial transactions are carried out in public places through electronic cards such as debit cards and credit cards. Typically to complete a financial transaction a customer is asked to enter a Personal Identification Number PIN or a password for authentication. In such cases entering of the PIN is exposed to prying eyes resulting in easy hack of the PIN by watching pattern of finger flow while entering the PIN for transaction. Therefore there are concerns on securing the PIN entries from shoulder surfing while performing the financial transaction using the electronic cards. Further these concerns are also applicable to any authentication lock pad for entering the PIN for authentication for example device locks lockers door locks Point of Sale PoS automated Teller Machine ATM etc where the user is supposed to enter the PIN in public places.

Disclosed herein are systems and methods for generating a secure locking interface on a touch screen display of a computing device. In one example the system for generating the secure locking interface comprises a processor a memory communicatively coupled to the processor wherein the memory stores processor executable instructions which on execution cause the processor to associate a first attribute and a second attribute to at least one alphanumeric code upon receiving an authentication request for authenticating a user. The first attribute and the second attribute include at least one of colors shapes special characters and images. The processor executable instructions on execution further cause the processor to render an alphanumeric interface to the touch screen display. The alphanumeric interface has the at least one alphanumeric code with the first attribute and the second attribute associated. The processor executable instructions on execution further cause the processor to render a keypad interface to the touch screen display wherein the keypad interface has an input key for each of the first attribute and the second attribute.

In certain embodiments the processor executable instructions on execution further cause the processor to obtain a user input through the input key. The user input indicates a selection of the first attribute and the second attribute by the user. The processor executable instructions on execution further cause the processor to determine an input alphanumeric code corresponding to a combination of the first attribute and the second attribute based on the user input. The processor executable instructions on execution further cause the processor to authenticate the user based on the input alphanumeric code.

In certain embodiments the at least one alphanumeric code has a unique combination of the first attributes and the second attribute

In certain embodiments one or more alphanumeric codes from amongst the at least one alphanumeric code have same combination of the first attribute and the second attribute. Moreover sequence of the first attribute and the second attribute is different for each of the or more alphanumeric codes

In certain embodiments of the disclosure relates to a method for generating a secure locking interface on a touch screen display of a computing device comprises associating a first attribute and a second attribute to at least one alphanumeric code upon receiving an authentication request for authenticating a user. The first attribute and the second attribute include at least one of colors shapes special characters and images. The method further comprises rendering an alphanumeric interface to the touch screen display wherein the alphanumeric interface has the at least one alphanumeric code with the first attribute and the second attribute associated. The method further comprises rendering a keypad interface to the touch screen display. The keypad interface has an input key for each of the first attribute and the second attribute.

Certain embodiments of the present disclosure also relate to a non transitory computer readable medium storing instructions that when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform operations comprising generating a secure locking interface on a touch screen display of a computing device comprises associating a first attribute and a second attribute to at least one alphanumeric code upon receiving an authentication request for authenticating a user. The first attribute and the second attribute include at least one of colors shapes special characters and images. In addition the operations may comprise rendering an alphanumeric interface to the touch screen display wherein the alphanumeric interface has the at least one alphanumeric code with the first attribute and the second attribute associated. Moreover the operations may comprise rendering a keypad interface to the touch screen display. The keypad interface has an input key for each of the first attribute and the second attribute.

In certain embodiments of the present disclosure relates to a secure locking interface produced by an application program operating on a computing device. The secure locking interface comprises an alphanumeric interface comprising at least one alphanumeric code associated with a first attribute and a second attribute. The secure locking interface further comprises a keypad interface comprising an input key for each of the first attribute and the second attribute.

In certain embodiments the first attribute and the second attribute include at least one of colors shapes special characters and images.

Additional objects and advantages of the present disclosure will be set forth in part in the following detailed description and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the present disclosure. The objects and advantages of the present disclosure will be realized and attained by means of the elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that any block diagrams herein represent conceptual views of illustrative systems embodying the principles of the present subject matter.

In the present document the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment or implementation of the present subject matter described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Further examples and features of disclosed principles described herein modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosed embodiments. Also the words comprising having containing and including and other similar forms are intended to be equivalent in meaning and be open ended in that an item or items following any one of these words is not meant to be an exhaustive listing of such item or items or meant to be limited to only the listed item or items. It must also be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

Presently various techniques are used to address the concerns related to secure PIN entry in public places. In one conventional technique layout of keypad is dynamically changed to ensure secure PIN entry. In one example positions of numbers are changed. In another example spacing between buttons on the keypad is varied. In another example dimensions of the buttons are changed. These changes in the layout of keypad may cause delay in the PIN entry by the user as every time a different keypad is provided to the user. Specially in case of elderly users the delay may be significant. Further change in the layout may also increase the number of unwanted errors in the PIN entries by the user as the keypad is unfamiliar to the user due to frequent change in the layout. Thereby leading to more chances of cancellation of the transaction and unnecessary disabling of the electronic card due to repeated erroneous entry. Also the delay in the PIN entry may create additional opportunity for the hackers to see through or record the PIN entry.

The present subject matter discloses systems and methods for generating a secure locking interface on a touch screen display of a computing device. The present subject matter associates one or more attributes such as colors shapes special characters and images to each key on keypad and generates the secure locking interface through which a user can select the one or more attributes which corresponds to the PIN. Therefore with the present subject matter a user can easily get authenticated by entering PIN without disclosing the PIN to prying eyes of shoulder surfers or onlookers.

Systems and methods for generating the secure locking interface may be implemented in a variety of computing systems. The computing systems that can implement the described method s include but are not limited to a server a desktop personal computer a notebook or a portable computer a mainframe computer a laptop a tablet and a mobile phone. Although the description herein is with reference to certain computing systems the systems and methods may be implemented in other computing systems albeit with a few variations as will be understood by a person skilled in the art.

Further working of the systems and methods for generating the secure locking interface is described in conjunction with . It should be noted that the description and drawings merely illustrate the principles of the present subject matter. It will thus be appreciated that those skilled in the art will be able to devise various arrangements that although not explicitly described or shown herein embody the principles of the present subject matter and are included within its spirit and scope. Furthermore all examples recited herein are principally intended expressly to be only for pedagogical purposes to aid the reader in understanding the principles of the present subject matter and are to be construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions. Moreover all statements herein reciting principles aspects and embodiments of the present subject matter as well as specific examples thereof are intended to encompass equivalents thereof. While aspects of the systems and methods can be implemented in any number of different computing systems environments and or configurations the embodiments are described in the context of the following exemplary system architecture s .

In operations when an Electronic Fund Transfer at Point of Sale EFTPOS is initiated by an electronic card to make payment the transaction processor may obtain card information from the electronic card. The card information may include details such as card number expiry date and name of card holder. The transaction processor may also obtain transaction information such as transaction amount and merchant information from a POS device.

Upon receiving the card information and the transaction information the transaction processor may instruct the keypad generation module to generate a secure locking interface for authentication a user. Thereafter the keypad generation module coordinates with the shape generation module the color generation module and the color scrambler to obtain attributes to be associated with each key of a keypad. Each key in the keypad may represent an alphanumeric code. In an example the attributes may include at least one of colors and shapes. It may be noted that the system may comprise other modules also other than the shape generation module and the color generation module to generate attributes such as images and special characters that can be associated with the alphanumeric codes present on the keypad.

Subsequently the shape generation module may generate one or more shapes such as a triangle a circle a square a diamond and a hexagon that can be associated with the alphanumeric codes as one of the attributes. Similarly the color generation module may generate one or more colors that can be associated with the alphanumeric codes. In one example the color generation module may generate three color codes using the card information and transaction information. Then the color codes may be converted into hexadecimal codes and sent to the keypad generation module . For example for Red color the color generation module may send hexadecimal code FF0000 to the keypad generation module .

In one implementation a unique combination of shape and color may be associated with each of the alphanumeric codes as a first attribute and a second attribute. In another implementation combination of two different colors may also be associated with each of the alphanumeric codes as a first attribute and a second attribute. In case of two different colors the color scrambler ensures that sequence of combination of two different colors is not repeated for a particular alphanumeric code. In an example the color scrambler also makes sure that two colors associated with an alphanumeric code should have different shades so that a user doesn t find it difficult to distinguish between the colors.

Thereafter the keypad generation module obtains the attributes generated by the shape generation module and the color generation module . The keypad generation module associates the attributes received to the alphanumeric codes. The keypad generation module may then instructs the PIN interface to render an alphanumeric interface to a touch screen display to the POS device comprising the alphanumeric codes associated with the first attribute and the second attribute. The alphanumeric interface displays the alphanumeric codes along with the first attribute and the second attribute that are associated with the alphanumeric codes. Further the PIN interface renders a keypad interface to the touch screen display. The keypad interface comprises an input key for each of the first attribute and the second attribute associated with the alphanumeric codes. For example if numeric is associated with Red color and Circle shape then the keypad interface may have one input key for Red color and one input key for Circle shape. To enter the numeric the user may press the input keys for the Red color and Circle shape. Since each of the alphanumeric code is associated with unique combination of the color and the shape the user may follow any sequence for providing input i.e. color and shape or shape and color.

However in case two different colors are associated with the alphanumeric codes the user may have to follow a sequence to input the attributes as it is possible that two alphanumeric codes may have same combination of colors but in different sequence. For example numeric may be associated with Red and Blue color and numeric may be associated with Blue and Red color. In such cases the user needs to follow a sequence to input the corresponding alphanumeric code. Violation of such sequence may result in an error message.

Once the secure locking interface comprising the alphanumeric interface and the keypad interface is rendered to the touch screen display the PIN interface may instruct the user to input PIN for authentication. Then the user may press the input keys in the keypad interface to input the PIN. The user needs to press the input keys for each of the alphanumeric codes present in the PIN. Thus by pressing the input keys corresponding to the alphanumeric codes the user provides the PIN. Since the user is not pressing the alphanumeric code present in the PIN chances of prying on the PIN are eliminated.

Further the PIN interface receives user selection of the first attribute and the second attribute and send it to the PIN assembler through the keypad generation module . Subsequently the PIN assembler interprets the user selection and determines alphanumeric codes corresponding to the first attribute and the second attribute received through the user selection. In this manner the PIN assembler determines the PIN and sends it to the transaction processor . In case the PIN assembler is not able to interpret the PIN due to invalid user selection a failure message may be sent to the touch screen display informing the user about failure.

The transaction processor upon receiving the PIN sends the PIN an authorization entity in secure fashion for authorization via a network by adhering to the Payment Card Industry Data Security standard PCI DSS . In case of correct PIN entry the user is authenticated and the financial transaction is completed. In case of incorrect PIN entry the authentication is denied and financial transaction is cancelled. Further a transaction failure message may be sent to the touch screen display through the system . Furthermore for subsequent PIN entries a new secure locking interface may be generated.

Although description herein is for generating the secure locking interface for authentication of a user to complete a financial transaction it may be noted that same concepts may be applied to device lock door lock ATM etc. without deviating from scope of the present disclosure.

Further as shown in the keypad interface comprises input keys for each of the attributes associated with the numeric codes. The keypad interface has input keys Square Circle Triangle Rhombus Red Blue Green and Purple .

For inputting the PIN through the secure locking interface the user may press the input keys corresponding to the attributes. In an example say PIN is 4165 . To input the PIN through the secure locking interface the user may first press color and then shape i.e. Purple Square Blue Circle Purple Circle and Red Rhombus which corresponds to the PIN 4165 In an example the user may first press shape and then color i.e. Square Purple Circle Blue Circle Purple and Rhombus Red since the sequence is not relevant for a case where shapes and colors are associated with the alphanumeric codes.

For inputting the PIN through the secure locking interface the user may press the input keys corresponding to the colors that are associated with the alphanumeric codes. In an example say PIN is 7532 . To input the PIN through the secure locking interface the user may press the input keys for the colors in a left to right sequence i.e. Green Red Blue White Red White and Red Green . Since in case of two colors associated with the alphanumeric codes a combination may be repeated for an alphanumeric code but sequence is different a specific sequence must be followed. In said example a left to right sequence is followed. In case the sequence is not followed the system may fail to interpret or wrongly interpret the PIN as both the numeric and have same combination of color but sequence of the color is different. Therefore in implementation where two colors are associated with the alphanumeric codes a specific sequence is followed and the user may be made aware about the sequence through a notification.

The methods and may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions. Generally computer executable instructions can include routines programs objects components data structures procedures modules and functions which perform particular functions or implement particular abstract data types. The methods and may also be practiced in a distributed computing environment where functions are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communication network. In a distributed computing environment computer executable instructions may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

The order in which the methods and are described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described method blocks can be combined in any order to implement the methods and or alternative methods. Additionally individual blocks may be deleted from the methods and without departing from the spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. Furthermore the methods and can be implemented in any suitable hardware software firmware or combination thereof

With reference to method as depicted in as shown in block a first attribute and a second attribute are associated to at least one alphanumeric code upon receiving an authentication request for authenticating a user. Examples of the first attribute and the second attribute may include at least one of colors shapes special characters and images. In an example when a user authentication is to be carried out to complete a financial transaction or to unlock a device the authentication request is sent to the system . The authentication request is then received by the transaction processor present in the system . The transaction processor instructs the keypad generation module to generate the secure locking interface. Upon receiving the instructions the keypad generation module coordinates with the shape generation module and the color generation module to generate the shapes and colors. In case where two different colors are to be associated with the alphanumeric codes the color scrambler ensures that both the colors have different shades and should be easily distinguishable so that the user doesn t find it difficult to recognize the colors. Further the shapes and colors generated may be then associated with alphanumeric codes present in the keypad. In an example the color generation module and the shape generation module may generate the color and shapes respectively based on card information and transaction information such as card number name of card holder expiry date transaction Id transaction amount and merchant name so that each time a different secure locking interface is generated for the same card.

At block alphanumeric interface is rendered to the touch screen display. The alphanumeric interface may comprise the alphanumeric codes with the first attribute and the second attribute associated. In an example the keypad generation module receives the colors and shapes generated by the color generation module and shape generation module respectively. Thereafter the keypad generation module may associate the colors and the shapes as a first attribute and a second attribute to each of the alphanumeric codes. The keypad generation module makes these associations in such a manner that a combination of a color and a shape is never repeated. However in case two different colors are associated with the alphanumeric codes as a first attribute and a second attribute a combination of two different colors may be repeated but sequence of the combination may not be same.

Further the keypad generation module may instruct the PIN interface to render the alphanumeric interface comprising the alphanumeric codes with the first attribute and the second attribute. The PIN interface renders the alphanumeric display to a touch screen display of a computing device which requested for the user authentication.

At block a keypad interface is rendered to the touch screen display. The keypad interface may comprise an input key for each of the first attribute and the second attribute that are associated with the alphanumeric codes. In an example the keypad generation module informs the PIN interface about the attributes i.e. the colors and the shapes that are associated with the alphanumeric codes. Then the PIN interface may render the keypad interface to the touch screen display. In an example if Red Blue and Green color are associated with the alphanumeric codes then the keypad interface may have one input key for each of the Red Blue and Green color.

In this manner the secure locking interface comprising the alphanumeric interface and the keypad interface is rendered to the touch screen and user can provide the PIN securely through the keypad interface without compromising on security of the PIN in public places.

With reference to method as depicted in as shown in block a user input is obtained through the input key present on the keypad interface. The user input indicates a selection of the first attribute and the second attribute by the user. In an example the user may press the input keys to select the first attribute and the second attribute corresponding to the alphanumeric codes present in PIN of the user. For example if the PIN has numeric in it and it is shown in the alphanumeric interface that Red color and Circle shape is associated with the numeric then the user may press the input keys for the Red color and Circle shape.

At block an input alphanumeric code corresponding to a combination of the first attribute and the second attribute is determined based on the user input. The user may repeat the step of pressing the input keys corresponding to the attributes for each of the alphanumeric code present in the PIN. In an example the transaction processor receives the user input and sends it to the PIN assembler for interpretation. The PIN assembler interprets the combination of the color and shapes or combination of color and color to determine the alphanumeric code corresponding to the combination. In an example if Red color and Circle shape are associated with the numeric upon receiving the Red color and Circle shape in the user input then the PIN assembler may interpret that the user input corresponds to numeric . In this manner the PIN of the user is determined.

At block the user is authenticated based on the input alphanumeric code. In an example once the alphanumeric codes present in the PIN or in other words the PIN is determined the PIN assembler may send the PIN to the transaction processor which may further send the PIN to an authorization entity over a secure network to complete authentication process. If the PIN is correct the user is authenticated and the financial transaction is completed. If the PIN is incorrect the authentication of user fails and financial transaction is cancelled. Further the transaction processor receives the authentication message failure or success message from the authorization entity and informs the same to the user through the touch screen display. In another example if the system is configured in a device for carrying authentication for unlocking the device the transaction processor may match the PIN with a PIN present in a repository of the device to provide or restrict access to the device.

Thus present subject matter generates a secure locking interface that allows the users to securely enter the PIN in public places through the input keys for the attributes without disclosing the PIN to prying eyes of shoulder surfers and onlookers. Further the present subject matter ensures that process of inputting the PIN should not become complex by using easily recognizable shapes and colors. Furthermore since in the present subject matter layout of the keypad is not changed and the input is provided through the input keys corresponding to the attributes probability of a user making an error while inputting the PIN is minimized.

Processor may be disposed in communication with one or more input output I O devices via I O interface . The I O interface may employ communication protocols methods such as without limitation audio analog digital monaural RCA stereo IEEE 1394 serial bus universal serial bus USB infrared PS 2 BNC coaxial component composite digital visual interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RF antennas S Video VGA IEEE 802.n b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. code division multiple access CDMA high speed packet access HSPA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE WiMax or the like etc.

Using the I O interface the computer system may communicate with one or more I O devices. For example the input device may be an antenna keyboard mouse joystick infrared remote control camera card reader fax machine dongle biometric reader microphone touch screen touchpad trackball sensor e.g. accelerometer light sensor GPS gyroscope proximity sensor or the like stylus scanner storage device transceiver video device source visors etc. Output device may be a printer fax machine video display e.g. cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED plasma or the like audio speaker etc. In some embodiments a transceiver may be disposed in connection with the processor . The transceiver may facilitate various types of wireless transmission or reception. For example the transceiver may include an antenna operatively connected to a transceiver chip e.g. Texas Instruments WiLink WL1283 Broadcom BCM4750IUB8 Infineon Technologies X Gold 318 PMB9800 or the like providing IEEE 802.11a b g n Bluetooth FM global positioning system GPS 2G 3G HSDPA HSUPA communications etc.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with a communication network via a network interface . The network interface may communicate with the communication network . The network interface may employ connection protocols including without limitation direct connect Ethernet e.g. twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP token ring IEEE 802.11a b g n x etc. The communication network may include without limitation a direct interconnection local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless network e.g. using Wireless Application Protocol the Internet etc. Using the network interface and the communication network the computer system may communicate with devices and . These devices may include without limitation personal computer s server s fax machines printers scanners various mobile devices such as cellular telephones smartphones e.g. Apple iPhone Blackberry Android based phones etc. tablet computers eBook readers Amazon Kindle Nook etc. laptop computers notebooks gaming consoles Microsoft Xbox Nintendo DS Sony PlayStation etc. or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may itself embody one or more of these devices.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with one or more memory devices e.g. RAM ROM etc. via a storage interface . The storage interface may connect to memory devices including without limitation memory drives removable disc drives etc. employing connection protocols such as serial advanced technology attachment SATA integrated drive electronics IDE IEEE 1394 universal serial bus USB fiber channel small computer systems interface SCSI etc. The memory drives may further include a drum magnetic disc drive magneto optical drive optical drive redundant array of independent discs RAID solid state memory devices solid state drives etc.

The memory devices may store a collection of program or database components including without limitation an operating system user interface application web browser mail server mail client user application data e.g. any data variables or data records discussed in this disclosure etc. The operating system may facilitate resource management and operation of the computer system . Examples of operating systems include without limitation Apple Macintosh OS X UNIX Unix like system distributions e.g. Berkeley Software Distribution BSD FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD etc. Linux distributions e.g. Red Hat Ubuntu Kubuntu etc. IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows XP Vista 7 8 etc. Apple iOS Google Android Blackberry OS or the like. User interface may facilitate display execution interaction manipulation or operation of program components through textual or graphical facilities. For example user interfaces may provide computer interaction interface elements on a display system operatively connected to the computer system such as cursors icons check boxes menus scrollers windows widgets etc. Graphical user interfaces GUIs may be employed including without limitation Apple Macintosh operating systems Aqua IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows e.g. Aero Metro etc. Unix X Windows web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX Java Javascript AJAX HTML Adobe Flash etc. or the like.

In some embodiments the computer system may implement a web browser stored program component. The web browser may be a hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Google Chrome Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari etc. Secure web browsing may be provided using HTTPS secure hypertext transport protocol secure sockets layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS etc. Web browsers may utilize facilities such as AJAX DHTML Adobe Flash JavaScript Java application programming interfaces APIs etc. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail server stored program component. The mail server may be an Internet mail server such as Microsoft Exchange or the like. The mail server may utilize facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI C C Microsoft .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP Python WebObj ects etc. The mail server may utilize communication protocols such as internet message access protocol IMAP messaging application programming interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail client stored program component. The mail client may be a mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Mozilla Thunderbird etc.

In some embodiments computer system may store user application data such as the data variables records etc. as described in this disclosure. Such databases may be implemented as fault tolerant relational scalable secure databases such as Oracle or Sybase. Alternatively such databases may be implemented using standardized data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table or as object oriented databases e.g. using ObjectStore Poet Zope etc. . Such databases may be consolidated or distributed sometimes among the various computer systems discussed above in this disclosure. It is to be understood that the structure and operation of the any computer or database component may be combined consolidated or distributed in any working combination.

The specification has described methods and systems for evaluating source code scanners. The illustrated steps are set out to explain the exemplary embodiments shown and it should be anticipated that ongoing technological development will change the manner in which particular functions are performed. These examples are presented herein for purposes of illustration and not limitation. Further the boundaries of the functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined herein for the convenience of the description. Alternative boundaries can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships thereof are appropriately performed. Alternatives including equivalents extensions variations deviations etc. of those described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the teachings contained herein. Such alternatives fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosed embodiments. Also the words comprising having containing and including and other similar forms are intended to be equivalent in meaning and be open ended in that an item or items following any one of these words is not meant to be an exhaustive listing of such item or items or meant to be limited to only the listed item or items. It must also be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

Furthermore one or more computer readable storage media may be utilized in implementing embodiments consistent with the present disclosure. A computer readable storage medium refers to any type of physical memory on which information or data readable by a processor may be stored. Thus a computer readable storage medium may store instructions for execution by one or more processors including instructions for causing the processor s to perform steps or stages consistent with the embodiments described herein. The term computer readable medium should be understood to include tangible items and exclude carrier waves and transient signals i.e. be non transitory. Examples include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM volatile memory nonvolatile memory hard drives CD ROMs DVDs flash drives disks and any other known physical storage media.

It is intended that the disclosure and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of disclosed embodiments being indicated by the following claims.

