---

title: Apparatus, systems and methods for determining tissue oxygenation
abstract: A surgical instrument may be configured to sense a light re-emitting probe to resolve tissue oxygenation, the surgical instrument including: an optical emitter configured to excite the light re-emitting probe within an absorption band of the light re-emitting probe; an optical detector configured to receive the re-emitted light from the probe; and a signal processor configured to resolve the tissue oxygenation based on the received light. The surgical instrument can be a surgical stapler anvil or a flexible substrate having a tissue interfacing surface. Further, a monitoring device may be configured to map oxygenation of a tissue containing a light re-emitting probe, the monitoring device including: an optical emitter configured to excite the light re-emitting probe; at least one optical detector configured to receive the re-emitted light from the probe; and a signal processor that is configured to resolve the tissue oxygenation at multiple points to generate an oxygen map.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09420967&OS=09420967&RS=09420967
owner: Surgisense Corporation
number: 09420967
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140319
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 803 451 filed Mar. 19 2013 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government Support under National Institutes of Health grant no. CA153571. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to systems methods and medical devices for use with molecular probes for resolving tissue oxygenation. More particularly the inventions are directed to systems methods and medical devices with sensors used to detect properties of biological tissue and a system for resolving the information gathered by the sensors.

A living organism is made up of cells. Cells are the smallest structures capable of maintaining life and reproducing. Cells have differing structures to perform different tasks. A tissue is an organization of a great many similar cells with varying amounts and kinds of nonliving intercellular substances between them. An organ is an organization of several different kinds of tissues so arranged that together they can perform a special function.

Although many surgical procedures are successful there is always a chance of failure. Depending on the type of procedure these failures can result in pain need for re operation extreme sickness or death. At present there is no reliable method of predicting when a failure will occur. Most often the failure occurs after the surgical procedure has been completed. Failures of surgical procedures can take many forms. The most difficult failures to predict and avoid are those that involve biological tissue. This difficulty arises for three distinct reasons. Firstly the properties that favor the continued function of biological tissue are very complex. Secondly these properties are necessarily disrupted by surgical manipulation. Finally the properties of biological tissues vary between patients.

During a surgical operation a variety of surgical instruments are used to manipulate biological tissues. However traditional surgical instruments do not have the ability to obtain information from biological tissues. Obtaining information from the biological tissues that surgical instruments manipulate can provide a valuable dataset that at present is not collected. For example this dataset can quantitatively distinguish properties of tissues that will result in success or failure when adapted to specific patient characteristics.

What is needed are medical devices systems and methods that can adapt to patient specific characteristics that are of importance in avoiding surgical procedure failure.

A surgical instrument is configured to sense a light re emitting probe to resolve tissue oxygenation. The surgical instrument includes at least one optical emitter that is configured to excite the light re emitting probe within an absorption band of the light re emitting probe at least one optical detector configured to receive the re emitted light from the probe and a signal processor that is configured to resolve the tissue oxygenation based on the received light.

The surgical instrument further includes an applicator configured to provide a target tissue with a medium the medium containing the light re emitting probe. The signal processor is configured to resolve the tissue oxygenation based in a lifetime of the re emitted light. The surgical instrument is a surgical stapler anvil. The applicator is at least one injector that is configured to inject the medium into the target tissue. The surgical instrument further includes an interrogator instrument that is configured to interrogate the tissue. The surgical instrument is a flexible substrate having a tissue interfacing surface. The signal processor makes a determination of an operation success based on the resolution of the tissue oxygenation. The surgical instrument further includes a temperature sensor that is configured to detect a temperature of the tissue and at least one sensor configured to monitor interaction forces of at least one of compression pressure and tissue tension of the tissue. The probe is a phosphorescent probe that has multiple absorption wavelengths. The surgical instrument is communicatively coupled to a base station.

A surgical stapler anvil is configured to sense a light re emitting probe to resolve tissue oxygenation. The surgical stapler anvil includes at least one optical emitter that is configured to excite the light re emitting probe at least one optical detector that is configured to receive the re emitted light from the probe and a signal processor that is configured to resolve the tissue oxygenation based on the received light.

The surgical stapler anvil is communicatively coupled to a base station. The signal processor makes a determination of an operation success based on the resolution of the tissue oxygenation. The surgical stapler anvil further includes a temperature sensor that is configured to detect a temperature of the tissue. The surgical stapler anvil further includes at least one sensor configured to monitor interaction forces of at least one of compression pressure and tissue tension of the tissue.

A monitoring device is configured to sense a light re emitting probe to resolve tissue oxygenation. The monitoring device includes a flexible substrate having a tissue interfacing surface the tissue interfacing surface containing 1 at least one optical emitter that is configured to excite the light re emitting probe and 2 at least one optical detector configured to receive the re emitted light from the probe and a signal processor that is configured to resolve the tissue oxygenation based on the received light.

The monitoring device includes at least one injector configured to inject a medium into target tissue the medium containing the light re emitting probe. The monitoring device is communicatively coupled to a base station. The signal processor makes a determination of an operation success based on the resolution of the tissue oxygenation. The monitoring device further includes a temperature sensor that is configured to detect a temperature of the tissue. The flexible substrate is configured to be one or more of 1 affixed to skin and 2 affixed to an internal tissue. The monitoring device is at least partially bioabsorbable.

A monitoring device is configured to map oxygenation of a tissue containing a light re emitting probe. The monitoring device includes at least one optical emitter that is configured to excite the light re emitting probe at least one optical detector configured to receive the re emitted light from the probe and a signal processor that is configured to resolve the tissue oxygenation at multiple points to generate an oxygen map.

The monitoring device further includes at least one injector configured to inject a medium into target tissue the medium containing the light re emitting probe. The monitoring device further includes a temperature sensor that is configured to detect a temperature of the tissue. The optical detector is at least one of a CCD array a CMOS image sensor and a camera. The monitoring device is an endoscopic instrument. The monitoring device is ingestible.

Additional features advantages and embodiments of the invention are set forth or apparent from consideration of the following detailed description drawings and claims. Moreover it is to be understood that both the foregoing summary of the invention and the following detailed description are exemplary and intended to provide further explanation without limiting the scope of the invention as claimed.

Each surgical procedure has the potential for failure. A common procedure in gastrointestinal surgery is a bowel resection removing the affected portion of the bowel and then mechanically joining the ends of the remaining segments to re establish bowel continuity. The mechanical connection of the free ends of bowel forms what is termed a surgical anastomosis. A surgical anastomosis is formed by either traditional techniques using suture material or by contemporary techniques which may include utilizing surgical staplers or other surgical fastening device. A surgical stapler mechanically joins the bowel by firing a pattern of staples from a cartridge or housing through the two free ends of bowel against an anvil that ultimately forms a securing crimp on the opposing side. There are many embodiments of surgical staplers. Some staplers form linear staple patterns while others form circular patterns. Some staplers incorporate functionality for cutting tissue. Many staplers have the ability to vary the gap between the base of the staple and the formed crimp.

Anastomotic failure is one of the most feared complications of gastrointestinal surgery due to the resultant morbidity and mortality. Failure of an anastomosis or intestinal junction can cause a spectrum of morbidities to the patient including local abscess formation requiring procedural drainage tumor recurrence debilitating pain dysfunctional defecation and overwhelming bacterial sepsis resulting in death. Despite improvements in surgical technique there remains limited ability to assess the anastomotic segment and predict outcome and as a result anastomotic failure occurs at unacceptably high levels given the severe consequences. For example in the performance of a low anterior resection LAR for excision of rectal cancer anastomotic failure has been reported to occur in up to 30 of cases. One large multicenter observational study of 2729 patients reported a leak rate of 14.3 . These anastomotic failures cause a significant and avoidable economic burden on the healthcare system as well as an incalculable amount of pain suffering and hardship for the patients in which the failure occurs. The devastating consequences of an anastomotic failure are so severe that in the majority of cases surgeons performing a low anterior resection will opt to create a diverting ostomy at the time of resection to mitigate the risks of anastomotic failure. In the same study 881 patients were given a temporary diverting ostomy while 128 patients developed a leak. Up to 85 percent of those patients underwent an additional surgical procedure to reverse the ostomy that provided questionable benefit. While a diverting ostomy can avoid the dire consequences of anastomotic failure it does not prevent failure and poses a risk for additional complications. The morbidity rate for a temporary ostomy is 20 30 . Complications include intestinal obstruction torsion dehydration electrolyte imbalance stomal refraction and severe skin breakdown. Additionally complications of ostomy closure occur in a third of patients. Furthermore an ostomy significantly compromises the lifestyle of the recovering patient.

There is neither a clinically practical apparatus that can quantitatively assess an anastomosis intra operatively to determine the likelihood of failure nor an objective set of criteria by which a surgeon can select those patients that would benefit from diverting ostomy. Nor is there a device that can help in determining the optimal placement of an anastomosis.

There exists a need for a device system and methodology for reducing anastomotic failures through the analysis of target tissues before during and after the creation of an anastomosis. There also exists a need to objectively determine at the time of surgery those patients that would benefit from a diverting stoma procedure. There also exists a need to deliver adjunct therapies to the anastomotic site to optimize outcome.

To accomplish its goal one embodiment of the present invention interrogates the tissue prior to creation of an anastomosis to enable the operative team to identify a suitable site based on quantitative criteria. Another embodiment couples to the desired stapling platform which includes traditional off the shelf disposable surgical staplers and uses an array of multimodality sensors to measure the viability of the tissues during the creation of the anastomosis. If tissue parameters are unsuitable for an anastomosis the operative team can take corrective action thus reducing the risk of anastomotic failure. At the conclusion of the formation of the anastomosis the operative team can ensure tissue measures remain within acceptable range. If the measures are abnormal the operative team can again take corrective action to improve outcome. Measurements may be made from the internal and or external surface of the tissue.

One representative application of the present invention is in the treatment of colorectal cancer. Colorectal cancer CRC is the third most common cause of cancer for men and women in developed countries. Estimates predict that worldwide just under 1.2 million new cases of colorectal cancer were diagnosed in 2007. Rectal cancer accounts for approximately 27 of all colorectal cancers and presents the formidable challenge of ensuring a curative resection while maintaining acceptable function. The mainstay of treatment for rectal cancer is surgical resection removing the affected portion of the bowel and performing an anastomosis on the ends of the remaining segments to re establish bowel continuity. The end to end anastomosis EEA is most commonly performed using circular EEA staplers. As with any surgical procedure resection of a rectal cancer can have complications. Amongst all of the possible complications the three most devastating to the patient in terms of morbidity and mortality are tumor recurrence anastomotic leak and anastomotic stricture. Tumor recurrence can be reduced by following oncologic principles of dissection providing appropriate adjunctive chemotherapeutic photodynamic and radiation therapies and preventing extra luminal extravasation of residual intra luminal neoplastic cells through anastomotic breakdown. Anastomotic failure has been anecdotally attributed to inadequate tissue perfusion and excessive tension at the anastomosis.

When determining the location of a rectal cancer the surgeon notes the distance of the tumor from the anal verge. The anal canal extends from 0 4 cm past the anal verge and the rectum 4 19 cm. Surgically the rectum extends from the anal sphincters to the sacral promontory. The location of the cancer dictates the type of surgical procedure performed.

The primary goal of a curative resection is to remove all potential tissues harboring cancerous cells. To accomplish this goal the surgical team aims to resect the tumor with a cancer free margin as well as the tumor s blood supply and draining lymphatic tissue. Tumors located in the upper rectum greater than 12 cm from the anal verge are regularly amenable to an anterior resection AR . Those in the mid rectum between 6 12 cm are subject to a LAR with or without a total mesorectal excision TME and tumors in the lower rectum 4 6 cm are usually treated with an ultra low anterior resection ULAR incorporating a TME and either a colorectal or coloanal anastomosis. A total mesorectal excision is a technique that attempts to resect the rectum and all investing soft tissues en bloc. This technique has been touted in the literature as having superior results in terms of minimizing local tumor recurrence however it is speculated that the procedure has an inverse effect on leak rates due to the excision of the supplying vasculature to the anastomotic site. Every attempt is made to retain fecal continence however those tumors involving the anal sphincters 0 4 cm are resected through a sphincter sacrificing abdominoperineal resection APR . The present invention may be used to determine surgical resection margins and anastomosis location based upon sensor measurements. These measurements may be performed on the internal and or external surface of the tissue and be interrogated as a single point or multiple locations.

As a secondary goal the surgical team strives to restore continuity of the bowel and ensuing fecal stream. To accomplish this goal an anastomosis is formed. Simply an anastomosis is the surgical connection of two free ends of a tubular structure. When the continuity of the bowel cannot be restored the fecal stream is diverted through a stoma or opening in the anterior abdominal wall through which the patient eliminates into an ostomy bag. There are two main reasons for stoma formation resection of the anal sphincter complex and diversion of the fecal stream. In a sphincter sacrificing procedure such as an APR the patient is dependent on a permanent ostomy. With a sphincter sparing procedure such as a LAR the fecal stream may diverted through a temporary ostomy in order to mitigate the risk of overwhelming sepsis resulting from fecal contents entering the abdominal cavity should there be a leak at the anastomosis. Most of the time a temporary stoma can be reversed within a few months after the initial operation through a separate procedure. The present invention may be used to assess the viability of the anastomosis and or stoma based upon sensor measurements.

The scientific literature suggests that the cause of anastomotic failure is that inadequate tissue perfusion as a result of redefined vasculature tissue interaction forces edema and tension result in a decrease of oxygen delivered to the anastomotic site. Without adequate oxygen delivery efficient aerobic cell respiration cannot occur within the native cells leading to tissue degradation collagen matrix cannot mature into strong collagen fibrils and white blood cells cannot effectively fight bacterial invasion.

Normal healing of a gastrointestinal anastomosis follows an orderly reparative process. The inflammatory phase occurs immediately after disruption of the tissue and lasts 2 3 days. This phase is characterized by efflux of inflammatory cells into the wound. Increased permeability of vessels adjacent to the wound facilitates the delivery of target cells. Hemostasis is achieved through a platelet mediated fibrin based clot. Neutrophils initially dominate this phase with the goal of killing invading microbes. Macrophages appear next and secrete tissue growth factors that are paramount to progressive repair. The proliferative phase begins with the arrival of fibroblasts. The fibroblasts replace the provisional clot matrix with a loosely organized collagen framework. In this phase the anastomosis first weakens as collagen lysis initially outpaces synthesis. Colonic anastomoses lose up to 70 of their initial strength. Collagen synthesis requires hydroxylation of lysine and proline residues. Cofactors essential for this process are oxygen ferrous iron Vitamin C and alpha ketoglutarate. Angiogenesis begins during this stage to increase oxygen and nutrient delivery to meet the increased metabolic demands of the healing wound. The final remodeling phase is characterized by the conversion of the relatively weak collagen from the previous phase into thick high strength collagen bundles.

The adequate supply of oxygen is of paramount importance in each phase of wound healing. During the inflammatory phase oxygen provides neutrophils with the critical ability to kill bacteria through superoxide generation. In the proliferative and remodeling phases oxygen is a key factor in collagen formation. Likewise oxygen provides for normal aerobic metabolism of the injured tissue.

The gastrointestinal tract with the exception of the esophagus and lower rectum is comprised of four layers the outer serosa the muscularis propria the submucosa and the mucosa. The submucosa consists of a layer of fibroelastic collagen matrix containing blood vessels and nerves. Halsted was the first to determine that the strength of the intestine is derived from the submucosal layer. It is the collagen fibrils within the submucosa that are mainly responsible for anastomotic integrity. Low collagen content is associated with reduced anastomotic bursting strength.

The etiology of anastomotic failures has been attributed to a variety of local and systemic factors. Local factors include tissue hypoperfusion anastomotic tension poor apposition of wound edges radiation injury and distal obstruction. The first three local factors contributing to failure are affected by surgical manipulation of tissues. Oxygen delivery to tissues is a function of the oxygen content of blood multiplied by the blood flow rate within a volume of tissue. Blood oxygen content BOC of whole blood is given by the following expression BOC Oxygen bound to hemoglobin Dissolved Oxygen BOC 1.34 Hb SO2 0.003 PO2

Where 1.34 ml g is the amount of oxygen functionally carried by one gram of circulating hemoglobin Hb g dl is hemoglobin SO2 is percent hemoglobin oxygen saturation 0.003 ml 100 ml mmHg is the solubility of O2 in plasma at 37 C. and PO2 mmHg is the partial pressure of oxygen within the blood. Under normal physiologic conditions Hb 15 g dl SO2 0.98 and PaO2 100 mmHg BOC is 20 ml O2 100 ml arterial blood.

As arterial blood flows through the capillary beds of the intestine the blood cell hemoglobin desaturates as oxygen diffuses toward the supported tissue. The degree of desaturation from tissue oxygen extraction varies based on the flow of oxygenated blood through the tissue as well as the metabolic needs of the target tissue. Auto regulation in the intestinal microcirculation allows for flow adjustment within limits responsive to demand. Under the normal flow conditions in canine ileum of 30 140 ml min 100 g of tissue oxygen extraction is flow independent. The tissue is able to extract an adequate amount of oxygen to support aerobic cellular metabolism. Flow rates less than 30 ml min 100 g oxygen extraction is flow dependent and the tissues may not be able to support aerobic metabolism. Human small intestine has the same threshold for flow dependent oxygen. Hypovolemia and shock are contributing factors to anastomotic failure where normovolemic anemia is tolerated if perfusion is adequate.

Surgical manipulations of anatomy during bowel resection as well as the creation of a surgical anastomosis cause a perturbation in tissue perfusion. A canine model demonstrated a reduction in mucosal blood flow at an end to end colonic anastomosis regardless of the technique employed. However the absolute reduction is dependent on technique. Using a circular stapler an anastomosis formed with a staple gap equal to the measured thickness of the interposed bowel walls yielded a 43 percent reduction in blood flow whereas a staple gap of half the measured thickness yielded a 71 percent flow reduction. A single layer sutured anastomosis resulted in a 27 percent flow reduction while a 59 percent flow reduction was recorded in a two layered sutured anastomosis. Perianastomotic serosal measurements were taken intra operatively on both the proximal and distal aspects of the anastomosis within 1 cm of the suture line. Altered perfusion at the rectal stump correlated with subsequent anastomotic leaks. Blood flow was measured by laser Doppler at the proximal side of an end to end colorectal anastomosis reveals a significant reduction in flow after requisite dissection. In summary anastomotic failure occurs when perfusion fails to provide the inputs needed to support tissue healing.

One representative application of the present invention is in the performance of a bowel resection secondary to a bowel obstruction. Often a mechanical bowel obstruction is caused by an adhesion which causes the bowel to twist upon itself or a hernia which incarcerates or strangulates the bowel. The blood supply to the bowel can be compromised leading to ischemia or infarction. Intra operatively the surgeon qualitatively determines if the bowel is viable after it has been untwisted or freed. If the bowel does not appear viable the bowel is resected. Often qualitative methods are not accurate in determining bowel viability. If the bowel pinks up then it may be salvageable. Questionable segments of bowel are either resected during the initial surgical procedure or left to declare themselves over a number of hours resulting in the performance of a second look operation to determine bowel viability. An advantage of the present invention is the ability to quantitatively assess bowel oxygenation at the time of surgery to ensure viability. If a segment is not viable and needs to be resected the present invention can guide the surgeon in selection of a viable resection margin. The anastomosis is then performed on tissue in which normal perfusion has been confirmed.

One representative application of the present invention is in the creation and monitoring of tissue flaps. Cancer of various types i.e. breast skin etc. often cause removal of significant volumes of tissue during an attempt at curative resection. Traumatic injury may result in severed limbs or avulsed portions of tissue. The resulting tissue loss is often replaced by native tissue transposed from other parts of the patient s body. Free tissue flaps are flaps that are completely removed from their native position along with the supplying vascular pedicle. The free flap vasculature is then reconnected to vessels near the tissue void. The vascular anastomosis may fail due to leakage stricture or occlusion from inappropriate clot formation. The present invention enables resolution of flap oxygenation in either a point or area fashion both for the intra operative confirmation of tissue perfusion and post operative monitoring. Current technology is limited to qualitative measures of blood flow. The present invention presents real time quantitative assessment of tissue oxygenation.

One representative application of the present invention is in the monitoring of patient oxygenation. A current method of continuously and non invasively monitoring a patient s oxygenation is through the use of pulse oximetry. In pulse oximetry the patient s blood is interrogated with light to determine the percentage of blood that is saturated with oxygen. Unfortunately this technique is limited by technical and physiologic factors. Ambient light and motion affect the pulse oximeter s ability to render a suitable signal. Poor blood flow in critically ill patients can often render pulse oximetry useless as the pulsatile signal cannot be resolved. The present invention enables an accurate measure of tissue oxygenation independent of blood flow in a robust manner.

One representative application of the present invention is in the monitoring of a disease state of the brain. There are numerous conditions trauma stroke procedures cancer infection inflammation etc that can affect brain perfusion oxygenation whether through primary means such as vessel occlusion or hemorrhage or through secondary means by alteration of intracranial pressure. Current technology fails to provide real time measurement of direct brain oxygenation perfusion. The present invention provides for real time measurement of brain perfusion oxygenation through trans cranial intra cranial or extra cranial means. The device can be positioned on an infant over the fontanel in order to interrogate underlying brain tissue. Alternatively the device can be placed intra cranially through a trans cranial port or implanted in the brain tissue to allow for continuous monitoring over extended periods of time. The device can be positioned on the eye to interrogate the internal structures such as the optic nerve or retina.

One representative application of the present invention is in the monitoring of organs. In this application the device can be temporarily placed or permanently implanted into or on the surface of an organ. Alternatively the device can be ingestible to monitor the gastrointestinal tract. An ingestible device could map the oxygenation and or other physiological parameters of the GI tract.

The present invention includes a surgical instrument probes and methods for assessment of phosphorescent or fluorescent lifetime of an injectable probe or natural auto fluorescence. In one configuration at least one sensor is configured to obtain biological tissue oxygenation utilizing the technique of oxygen dependent quenching of phosphorescence of an injectable probe. In another embodiment the present invention measures lifetime of a marker or other probe in or on the body. In a further embodiment lifetime of phosphorescence or fluorescence produced from native biologic tissue is assessed.

Other potential applications include but are not limited to the monitoring recording of a transplanted organ or appendage intra cranial intra thecal intra ocular intra otic intra nasal intra sinusoidal intra pharyngeal intra laryngeal intra esophageal intra tracheal intra thoracic intra bronchial intra pericardial intra cardiac intra vascular intra abdominal intra gastric intra cholecystic intra enteric intra colonic intra rectal intra cystic intra ureteral intra uterine intra vaginal intra scrotal intra cerebral intra pulmonic intra hepatic intra pancreatic intra renal intra adrenal intra lienal intra ovarian intra testicular intra penal intra muscular intra osseous and intra dermal physiologic biomechanical parameters.

The present invention relates to medical devices capable of measuring physiologic and mechanical properties of tissue. One embodiment of the invention relates to coupling sensing elements with a surgical instrument to determine tissue viability during surgery by measuring the optical time response from a light re emitting medium. In a specific embodiment an oxygen sensitive phosphorescent oxygen sensing probe is injected into tissue and a laparoscopic interrogator uses optical sensing elements to determine tissue oxygenation based on the optical response i.e. lifetime of light emitted by the phosphorescent probe.

The sensing elements associated with the invention may sense mechanical or biological properties. The sensing instruments may include one or more sensing modalities. The sensing modalities may include mechanical optical chemical electrical or other means for generating a signal indicative of a property of a subject tissue. In one embodiment the sensing elements measure oxygenation through the use of a medium containing a phosphorescent probe or phosphor delivered into tissue. Other embodiments measure oxygenation through oximetry based techniques. Further embodiments measure perfusion or flow rates through the time response of a fluorescent or phosphorescent medium introduced into the tissue.

In an embodiment the sensing elements are incorporated into or coupled to the working surface i.e. tissue contacting surface of a surgical instrument for manipulating biological tissue. Instruments may include traditional open laparoscopic endoscopic bronchoscopic otoscopic opthalmoscopic laryngoscopic cystoscopic colposcopic intravascular intraluminal robotic or other minimally invasive tools such as a purpose built tissue interrogator or instrumented standard instrument such as a grasper needle driver stapler clip applier catheter scissor cautery or retractor. Instruments may also include interrogators or other devices that may or may not be minimally invasive and may interrogate the internal and or the external surface of tissue.

The sensing elements may include mechanical and optical sensing modalities. Mechanical sensing includes but is not limited to pressure sensors that monitor tissue interaction forces including compression pressure and tissue tension. Optical sensing elements include but are not limited to light emitters including light emitting diodes LEDs broad band light sources and laser diodes LDs and light receivers including photodiodes PDs and silicon photomultipliers SiPMs CCD arrays CMOS imaging sensors cameras and spectrometers. The sensors may make measurements at a single discrete location or at a plethora of locations. The optical sensing elements are configured to measure at least one of tissue oxygenation oxygen delivery oxygen utilization tissue characterization and tissue general health using oximetry phosphorescent techniques or spectroscopic techniques and at least one of tissue perfusion tissue flow dynamics tissue oxygen content tissue chemical composition tissue immunologic activity tissue pathogen concentration or tissue water content using fluorescence or phosphorescence based techniques. The fluorescence and phosphorescence based techniques include but are not limited to the following monitoring and analyzing the intensity and time course of a fluorescent or phosphorescent response responsive to the injection or activation of a fluorescent or phosphorescent medium e.g. fluorescein or indocyanine green injection determining oxygen quantities by measuring oxygen dependent quenching of fluorescent or phosphorescent radiation using a sensitive material e.g. ruthenium by both intensity and time resolved methods determining oxygen concentration based on the quenching time response lifetime of injectable oxygen sensitive phosphorescent probes e.g. oxygen dependent quenching phosphorescent nano sensors and determining the target tissue property by quantitative fluorescent or phosphorescent methods including the use of quantum dots or other biomarkers incorporating light re emitting properties . In one configuration the device senses perfusion using flourescein or IC green or other imaging agent. In one other configuration the device senses native oxygen quenching or phosphorescence.

Measurement of tissue oxygenation or other tissue characteristics can be measured in a gated fashion to standardize the measurement and allow for comparison. One representative example of said gated measurement is the measurement of tissue oxygenation at a known interaction force s such as compression pressure. Measurements may also be gated to physiologic parameters such as respiration and cardiac output.

PCT Patent Application No. PCT US2006 013985 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety describes a system and methodology for using the information gathered by surgical instruments having sensors in an adaptive patient specific manner. The present invention can be used to predict outcome the likelihood of success or of failure or guide surgical procedure and as described in PCT US2006 013985 US Patent Application Publication No. 2012 0116185 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and U.S. Pat. No. 8 118 206 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Furthermore the present invention can be configured as an adjunct sensing system and as described in US Patent Application Publication No. 2012 0116185 and U.S. Pat. No. 8 118 206. Additionally the present invention can be powered by radiofrequency techniques and as described in US Patent Application Publication No. 2010 0081895 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Tissue parameters can be measured by a variety of methods. One technique utilized by the present invention measures tissue oxygenation levels via utilizing oxygen dependent quenching of phosphorescence via a systemic or locally injected phosphorescent oxygen sensing molecular probe for oxygen measurements. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 947 850 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety U.S. Pat. No. 5 837 865 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety U.S. Pat. No. 6 362 175 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety U.S. Pat. No. 6 165 741 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety U.S. Pat. No. 6 274 086 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety U.S. Pat. No. 7 575 890 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and US Patent Application Publication No. 2013 0224874 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The phosphorescent oxygen sensing probe can include a phosphorescent metalloporphyrin core encapsulated inside hydrophobic dendrimers which form a protecting shell that isolates the chromophore from direct contact with the environment controls oxygen diffusion and enables control over the probe s dynamic range and sensitivity. The metalloporphyrin core can be constructed with different elements. Palladium Pd and platinum Pt are two elements that can be utilized. The advantage of a platinum based core over a palladium based core is its quantum efficiency. The increase in the quantum efficiency of the phosphor allows for a significant increase of light output when compared to the Pd based molecule more light returned per molecule allows for the use of fewer molecules to achieve the same signal returned to the device. Alternatively injection of the same amount of molecule enables the use of less sensitive less expensive photo detectors. Peripheral PEGylation of the dendritic branches ensures high aqueous solubility of the probe whilst preventing interactions with biological macromolecules. The overall size of the molecular probe affects the probe s ability to be cleared by the kidney. Faster clearance limits the agent s exposure to the patient. The size can be varied through the modification of the dendrimer length number of dendrimers and the extent of PEGylation.

In one embodiment of the probe the core Pd meso tetra 3 5 dicarboxyphenyl tetrabenzoporphyrin PdTBP is encapsulated by eight generation 2 poly arylglycine AG2 dendrons each of which are PEGylated with monomethoxy polyethyleneglycol amine PEG NH2 groups Av. MW 1 000 Da having on average 21 22 monomeric CH2CH2O units. The molecular weight of the probe dendrimer was found to be in the range of 26 000 44 000 Da with a maxima of 35 354 Da as determined by MALDI mass spectroscopy. The phosphorescence quenching method relies on the ability of molecular oxygen O2 to quench phosphorescence of excited triplet state molecules in the environment. In biological systems phosphorescence quenching by oxygen occurs in a diffusion controlled fashion and is highly specific to O2 since O2 is the only small molecule dynamic quencher present in sufficiently high concentrations. The dependence of the phosphorescence lifetime on the partial pressure of oxygen pO2 through the range of biological concentrations is well described by the Stern Volmer equation 1 1 0 kq pO2 where is the phosphorescence lifetime at a specified oxygen pressure pO2 0 is the phosphorescence lifetime in the absence of oxygen pO2 0 and kq is the quenching constant. One molecular oxygen probe has a quenching constant kq of approximately 326 mmHg s and a 0 of 210 s over the range of physiologic pH 6.2 7.8 and constant temperature of 36.5 C. The calibration parameters of said probe kq and 0 change linearly with respect to temperature. The quenching constant kq increases from 211 mm Hg s to 338 mmHg s with the rise of temperature from 22 C. to 38 C. which corresponds to the temperature coefficient of 7.8 mm Hg s C. The absorption spectrum of said probe has maxima at approximately 448 nm and 637 nm with a phosphorescence emission maximum of 813 nm. Excitation at multiple wavelengths either separately or simultaneously confers an application specific advantage of being able to interrogate and distinguish tissue properties at differing penetration depths or layers. A combination of multiple pO2 values in a field of view e.g. where different tissue layers are differently oxygenated will manifest itself as a combination of lifetimes a sum of exponential decays multiple pO2 values and corresponding concentrations can be determined through means described herein.

In one embodiment jaws and or contain an applicator capable of delivering a medium into tissue . The medium may incorporate a fluorescent or phosphorescent oxygen sensing molecular probe. In one embodiment the applicator comprises one or more microneedles incorporated into one of jaws and . Said microneedles may take the form of a molded needle array. In another embodiment one of more of jaws and incorporates needles with a porous surface for delivering the medium into tissue . In another embodiment the needles have at least one side hole and an occluded tip. One embodiment of the present invention incorporates an integrated injection system. The injection system includes a vessel that contains the medium . The medium that has been introduced into tissue is identified as . In one embodiment the vessel contains a number of metered doses of a medium comprising the phosphorescent oxygen sensing molecular probe. Vessel is coupled with the one or more needles associated with jaws and or .

In one embodiment instrument contains a handle or other component that encloses one or more of control electronics battery power sources user interfaces displays and a wired or wireless communications interface. The instrument or component may include controls for adjusting compression pressure between jaws and articulating joint administering injections from vessel and operating sensing elements located in jaws and or . Component may be optionally detachable from instrument allowing for a partially disposable configuration of in which is reusable. The control electronics in or other location on instrument may communicate with an external interface through a wireless or wired connection . The external interface may take the form of a free standing base station a computer a tablet style computing device or other portable electronic device with a display or other device. External interface may additionally be connected to an external network. Device displays information to the clinician on display . This information may include tissue oxygenation blood flow maps of tissue oxygenation compression pressure warning information predictions about the likelihood of success of the procedure or other physiologic mechanical patient status or situational information. Sensory substitution including audio visual vibration or other techniques may be provided by instrument or external device .

In one embodiment of the present invention medium and contains fluorescent or phosphorescent oxygen sensing molecular probe. Light source may be a narrow band light source such as an LED or laser or may be a broadband source such as a white light source. The peak emission wavelength of the narrowband source is selected to be at or near an absorption peak of the probe e.g. an excitation wavelength of the probe in medium . Filter may be used to further restrict incident light to wavelengths in or near the absorption wavelength region of the probe. The probe re emits light which then optionally passes through filter to isolate the emission light from the incident light . Light detector senses the intensity of received light . In one configuration detector is a single point detector such as a PD APD SiPM or similar device. In an alternate configuration detector is a multi point detector such as a camera or an array of single point detectors. The camera may be CCD CMOS or other technology and may be directly at the tissue contacting surface of instrument or optically coupled at a remote location. The array of single point detectors may be PD array SiPM array linear CCD or other technology. In one configuration processor commands light pulses from source and analyzes the time response of the signal received by detector using time domain signal processing techniques. In an alternate configuration processor commands modulated light such as a sinusoidal intensity profile from source and analyzes the measured signal from detector to determine the phase lag through frequency domain signal processing techniques. In one configuration the probe in medium quenches the lifetime of the phosphorescent re emission in response to oxygen in the vicinity of the probe. This relationship between oxygenation and phosphorescent lifetime may follow the Stern Volmer relationship. Time domain or frequency domain techniques may be used by the signal processor to quantitatively resolve the corresponding oxygen content or concentration in a location of tissue . By resolve it is meant to calculate compute determine assess or acquire the solution for oxygen content or concentration in the target tissue. An exemplary implementation of said time domain or frequency domain techniques is taught in U.S. Pat. No. 6 707 168 B1. Oxygen content may be represented as a number or shown as a map of oxygenation on either device or an external display unit . The oxygen content may be used to predict the likelihood of success or failure of the surgical procedure or guide a surgical procedure. An exemplary implementation of predictive or guidance techniques is taught in US 2009 0054908 A1 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In one embodiment instrument is a minimally invasive surgical instrument. In another embodiment device is an anvil of a surgical stapler. In another embodiment device is an adjunct to a surgical instrument such as an accessory to a surgical stapler anvil. In another embodiment device is an internally implantable sensor. And in another embodiment medical device is an externally wearable device such as a patch or is an implantable sensor.

In one configuration of the present invention the medical device such as a surgical instrument or or other embodiments are configured to sense oxygenation in multi layered tissue or to discriminate oxygenation at different depths of tissue. Using a phosphorescent oxygen sensing probe having multiple absorption wavelengths in medium or the instrument or can irradiate and excite a subset of the probe injected into tissue or based on the excitation wavelength emitted from device or since the penetration depth in tissue is wavelength dependent. Oxygenation can be discriminated at two or more depths or layers by exciting the tissue sequentially with multiple excitation wavelengths at or near absorption peaks of the probe and determining the corresponding quenching response. Sensing the deeper values will be a summation of multiple layers oxygenation at deeper layers can be determined by accounting for the sensed oxygen at shallower layers. In an alternative approach the phosphorescent decay of various oxygenation levels in heterogeneous luminescence systems i.e. mixed oxygenations within the tissue sample can be determined through deconvolution methods to produce a spectrum of oxygenation.

In one embodiment of a sensing medical device a plethora of sinusoidally modulated excitation light outputs are generated either simultaneously separately or combined into a time varying frequency signal such as a chirp and frequency domain techniques are utilized to determine the spectrum of phase lag of the received signal from an injected phosphorescent medium. By determining the relative contributions of each phase lag a quantitative spectrum of tissue oxygenation may be generated. In another embodiment time domain techniques are utilized to determine the time response of the medium to a pulse of light. Multiple exponential fitting of the decay can be used to generate a quantitative spectrum of tissue oxygenation.

In one embodiment of the present invention the surgical instrument contains LEDs lasers or other light sources on the working surface of the surgical instrument that introduce excitation light into a phosphorescent or fluorescent medium delivered into a tissue in contact with said surface. Re emitted light i.e. fluorescent or phosphorescent emission is sensed by PDs avalanche photodiodes APDs photo multiplier tubes PMTs SiPMs or other photodetectors. Control electronics measure the time response of the oxygen dependent quenching of the phosphorescent response and said information is used to determine tissue oxygenation. Time domain or frequency domain based techniques may be used to determine tissue oxygenation. In one embodiment the medium incorporating phosphorescent oxygen sensing probes may be introduced using an injector integral to the surgical instrument. Microneedle needle arrays surface absorption or other approaches may be used to introduce the medium. An injection system may be incorporated into the surgical instrument. In another configuration a separate injection system is utilized which may be by traditional means i.e. needle and syringe or a stand alone injector specifically designed to operate with the instrument. In one configuration a stand alone injector is keyed to the sensing anvil to align injection locations with sensor locations. These techniques may be applied to a laparoscopic interrogator a stapler a laparoscopic or other minimally invasive instrument a robotic instrument or an instrument for open surgery.

In one embodiment of the invention the phosphorescent oxygen sensing molecular probes are coupled to a ferromagnetic material and substrate contains an apparatus for manipulating the probe location or clearance rate. In one configuration magnets including permanent switched permanent or electromagnets are integrated into or otherwise coupled to substrate . The magnets attract the probes in the medium to ensure that they remain in the tissue within range of the sensing elements . In a further embodiment the probe is configured with a size appropriate to maintain its location in the tissue for a period of time. The size of the probe is configured such that it remains in tissue without migrating such that sensing may be performed without the need for multiple or continuous injection. The probe may be sized such that it does not migrate that it clears naturally after a delay or that it clears rapidly. In a further embodiment bioabsorbable components are coupled with the probe such that the probe will have minimal migration while the bioabsorbable components are in place. After a period of time the bioabsorbable material no longer impedes migration or clearing of the probe and it can clear from the tissue and the body. The above described techniques are not limited to use with the embodiment of the patch shown in and may be applied to other embodiments.

In a configuration of the invention the probe is coupled with ferromagnetic material such that it is possible to control its delivery via magnetic forces. In another configuration the probe is coupled with bioabsorbable entities that protrude from the surface. Said entities allow the locally injected probe to remain at or near the injection site for a period of time. After which time the bioabsorbable entities will dissolve and the probe will be free to clear from the body.

Distal end contains two tissue contacting components upper jaws and lower jaw . The instrument is manipulated to place a biological tissue e.g. colonic tissue between jaws and . A tissue compression device is used to compress the tissue against surface of jaw . Compression device is capable of ensuring a consistent standardized pressure along surface . In one embodiment compression device is a balloon or bladder which is inflated through tube through pneumatic or hydraulic means. The device may incorporate one or more pressure sensors to ensure appropriate pressure is achieved. Pressure may be controlled automatically or manually with actuator or inlet .

One or more sensing elements and are integrated into or coupled with face . The sensing elements may include any of the previously described sensor types for measuring physiologic or mechanical properties. In one configuration the sensing elements include LEDs and PDs but may also take the form of other previously described emitters and detectors. In a further embodiment the LEDs and PDs alternate across and along each of two rows. In one embodiment the optical sensors use oximetry techniques where one or more wavelengths of light are emitted into the tissue and the absorption properties as detected by the PDs are used to assess tissue oxygenation. In one embodiment the LEDs are configured to optically excite a phosphorescent probe injected into the tissue and the PDs detect the phosphorescent response in order to assess the oxygen dependent quenching time. Control electronics are integrated into the instrument and may be located in upper jaw of tip . Additional electronics may be placed in the main proximal body of instrument. In one configuration control electronics in jaw control the sensing elements and an additional set of control electronics in the main body include a power source wired or wireless communication and user interfaces. User interfaces may include one or more buttons displays or audio devices. In one configuration control electronics manage control of the sensing elements and and determine information about the oxygen dependent quenching time that is used to assess tissue oxygenation at one or more points along surface .

In one embodiment needles are used to locally inject a medium containing the phosphorescent oxygen sensing probe. The needles may be small standard needles a micromolded needle array porous needles with individual or a plethora of holes on the side and occluded tips or other variations for distributing the medium in the tissue. In one configuration multiple needles and multiple sensing elements and provide a distribution of oxygenation in the tissue along face . Needles may be configured to inject varying amounts to varying depths in the tissue. In one configuration the sensing instrument is configured to assess a distribution of tissue oxygenation along both sides of layered or tubular tissue. LEDs sequentially emit two wavelengths and the time response for each wavelength provides information about the oxygen dependent quenching at different depths in the tissue as described previously. In one configuration one or more needles are inserted laterally along the length of the jaws through the tissue.

The needles are connected through tube to reservoir . Tube may pass through the center axis of articulated joint . Reservoir contains medium . The medium may contain a phosphorescent oxygen sensing molecular probe. In one embodiment plunger is used to inject metered doses of medium from sealed vessel . The vessel may contain a specific number or predefined does of the medium . In one embodiment an actuation device controls the motion of piston . The actuation device may be a screw or ratcheting device controlled by the user. It may take the form of a motorized or robotic actuation. The sensing instrument may be used with either locally injected medium or systemically injected medium. Locally injected medium may be delivered using apparatus associated with the sensing instrument as described or may be injected using a stand alone device. In one configuration a stand alone device is placed between jaws and and the medium is ejected into the tissue. Jaws and may be fixed move in a parallel motion or close in a hinged motion.

The sensing instrument may be used as a stand alone device. In an alternate configuration a wired or wireless connection connects to a base station and or one or more sensing instruments. The instrument may be a minimally invasive surgical instrument used for traditional open surgical procedures or configured for external use. The techniques shown in are directly applicable to other surgical instruments. In one embodiment instrument is a surgical stapler anvil. The anvil has a face that incorporates staple forms. Sensing elements and are configured such that they are at the tissue contact face of surface . Needles may be integrated into the anvil surface an opposing surface or an internal cavity. In one configuration reservoir is contained inside a cavity in the anvil and a plunger is actuated as the anvil compresses the tissue against an opposing surface thus injecting the tissue with the medium as the stapler is closed and the anvil is compressing the tissue against an opposing surface on the stapler body. In one configuration the medium is contained in a reservoir in a separate apparatus which is placed between the anvil and the opposing surface. In this configuration the reservoir is compressed and ejects the medium into the tissue as the anvil compresses the tissue. This invention includes configurations of the described embodiments wherein an injection system is contained within the sensing device and also configurations wherein the injector is external to the sensing device and may be operated independently.

It should be noted that these sensing techniques can be applied to other medical devices attached to patient . In one exemplary configuration a mask is placed over the patient. One or more sensors may be coupled with the mask itself or one or more sensors may be coupled with the strap . Similarly sensors may reside in a band or strap that may or may not contain another medical device and may be affixed to the head or other part of the body. In one configuration a sensor may be used to determine tissue oxygenation or other properties at the skin surface or at a depth below the surface. Such sensing may include assessing tissue oxygenation or other properties of tissue within the skull. A further exemplary configuration is a wearable strap or band with one or more sensors coupled with it. In one embodiment one or more of sensors and are configured to sense oxygenation through the use of phosphorescent oxygen sensing probes as described herein. In a further configuration injection devices to introduce a medium containing the probe may be coupled with the sensors. In an alternate configuration the probe is injected locally by other means or systemically. The described techniques for manipulating the position or flow of the probe may be applied with this device as with other devices presented in the invention. The sensors and may be configured to sense oxygenation by oxygen dependent quenching of a phosphorescent probe tissue spectroscopy pulse oximetry or other means and or may be configured to sense blood flow or perfusion and or may be configured to sense mechanical properties of the tissue or tissue sensor interaction. In one embodiment the device takes the form of a bite block or indwelling line tube such as an intracranial endotracheal oro naso gastric tube venous catheter arterial catheter chest tube feeding tube urinary catheter or rectal tube. The sensor elements are positioned on said tube in a manner such that they contact biological tissue. Phosphorescent medium is either systemically or locally injected into subject tissue. Previously described techniques for injection as well as maintaining the location of the medium in the vicinity of the sensor may be utilized with the configurations described herein.

In one configuration an injector or injection system is used to inject a medium containing an oxygen sensing molecular probe into the retina or other tissue. In other configurations an external injector provides a local injection of the probe or a systemic injection is performed to infuse the tissue with the oxygen sensing probe. The instrument may be manipulated manually or it may be moved using a robots or other externally controlled means. In one embodiment instrument is manipulated to scan sensor across the tissue surface to determine the oxygenation and or other properties at multiple points. In a further configuration by manipulating the tool a 2D or 3D oxygenation map of the retina is generated. The map may be fused with camera based imaging to generate an overlay of oxygenation or flow on a video steam or captured still image. In one configuration traditional endoscopy images are collected along with quantitative oxygen maps and are visualized together. In another embodiment the imaging device does not enter the vitreous and rather images the oxygenation in the eye through lens . The sensing instrument may be a stand alone device used in conjunction with imaging or surgical equipment such as an endoscope or integrated into or coupled with such imaging or surgical equipment. In a further embodiment sensor of instrument is configured to image beyond the retina to a point within the skull including the brain. The described sensor may be configured to assess tissue oxygenation based on oxygen dependent quenching of a molecular probe as described herein. It may further incorporate other optical or mechanical sensing techniques as described elsewhere in this disclosure.

Sensing device contains one or more sensing elements . The sensing elements may be integral parts of sensing device or connected via optical fibers wires wireless or other means. In one embodiment the sensing device is configured to assess oxygenation through optical means of monitoring an injected molecular phosphorescent probe that has oxygen dependent phosphorescent quenching characteristics. In one configuration the sensing elements emit one or more wavelengths of light through the eye s lens such that it focuses on a point such as the fovea on the optic nerve . One application of the invention is to assess oxygenation of the optic nerve as a proxy for brain oxygenation. In another application the invention is used to determine a map of oxygenation at and near the optic nerve and or on the retina . The exemplary embodiment of an oxygen imaging system i.e. oxygen mapping system shown in is only an example configuration and this approach may be utilized in other configurations for other organ systems. In a further embodiment this approach is utilized for assessing oxygenation of gastrointestinal tissue. It may be further utilized in the previously described approach to measure oxygenation before during and after CRC surgery.

Accordingly one embodiment includes a surgical device for sensing tissue oxygenation based upon oxygen dependent quenching of phosphorescent oxygen sensing probe.

Another embodiment includes a minimally invasive surgical device configured to sense oxygenation of a tissue wherein the sensing is based upon oxygen dependent quenching of a phosphorescent oxygen sensing probe wherein the surgical device contains a mechanism for ensuring consistent compression pressure the tissue.

Another embodiment includes a surgical instrument for manipulating biological tissue wherein the instrument incorporates an injection system configured to deliver a medium consisting in part of oxygen sensing probes to the tissue wherein the instrument further incorporates a sensing system configured to detect the optical response the oxygen sensing probes in the tissue.

Another embodiment includes a surgical instrument for manipulating biological tissue wherein the instrument incorporates a microneedle array configured to inject a medium into the tissue.

Another embodiment includes a surgical instrument for manipulation biological tissue wherein the instrument incorporates a microinjection system into the body of the instrument wherein the instrument further comprises one or more needles wherein the microinjection system controls injection of a medium into the tissue through the one or more needles.

Another embodiment includes a surgical instrument for manipulating biological tissue wherein the instrument comprises a means for producing constant compression pressure of the tissue against a surface of the instrument.

Another embodiment includes a method for manipulating an injectable probe wherein the probe incorporates ferromagnetic material and wherein a surgical instrument incorporates magnets to attract and retain the molecule.

Another embodiment includes a surgical instrument incorporating a means for injection of medium into tissue and further incorporates a means for manipulating the location of the medium in the tissue after injection.

Another embodiment includes a method for maintaining the position of a locally injected probe at the injection site in a tissue for a period of time wherein bioabsorbable entities are incorporated into the probes structure wherein the bioabsorbable entities detach from the probe and enable clearance from the body.

Another embodiment includes a surgical instrument comprising a high speed imaging system wherein the imaging system is configured to provide data to generate maps of tissue oxygenation based upon phosphorescent optical response of an injectable oxygen sensing probe.

Another embodiment includes a surgical instrument for eye surgery comprising an imaging system wherein the imaging system is configured to provide data to generate maps of tissue oxygenation based upon phosphorescent quenching time of an oxygen sensing probe.

Another embodiment includes a method of sensing and discriminating oxygenation in two or more layers of tissue wherein oxygenation is sensed based on phosphorescent quenching time of a phosphorescent oxygen sensing probe wherein the probe has multiple absorption wavelengths that have different tissue absorption properties wherein the oxygen is discriminated based on the phosphorescent response due to multiple emission wavelengths.

Another embodiment includes a surgical system comprising a surgical instrument configured to assess tissue oxygenation and further comprising a sensing device configured to assess tissue oxygenation that couples to a surgical stapler wherein both devices are configured to assess oxygenation of tissue using an injectable phosphorescent oxygen sensing probe wherein the system is configured to provide information to guide a surgical procedure.

Another embodiment includes a surgical instrument comprising a plurality of sensing elements wherein at least the instrument is configured to assess tissue oxygenation based on the quenching time of an injectable phosphorescent probe wherein the instrument is further configured to sense at least one of tissue oxygenation blood oxygenation pulse rate pulse presence pulse rhythm tissue perfusion staple gap compression force tissue interaction force fluorescence tissue electrical impedance tissue electrical activity pH concentration of cellular respiration metabolites electromyography temperature fluid flow rate fluid flow volume tissue pressure blood pressure biomarkers radiotracers immunologic characteristics biochemical characteristics nerve activity an evoked potential oxygen delivery oxygen utilization tissue characterization tissue general health tissue flow dynamics tissue chemical composition tissue immunologic activity tissue pathogen concentration tissue water content blood hemoglobin content tissue chromophore content tissue neoplastic cell content and tissue dysplastic cell content.

Another embodiment includes a surgical instrument configured to assess tissue oxygenation based on the quenching time of an injectable phosphorescent probe wherein the instrument is communicatively coupled via a wireless connection to a base station.

Another embodiment includes a sensing surgical stapler anvil wherein the sensing anvil is configured to assess oxygenation of tissue at the site of an anastomosis wherein the assessment of oxygenation is based on the quenching time of an injectable phosphorescent probe.

Another embodiment includes an adjunct to a surgical stapler incorporating at least one sensor configured to assess the oxygenation of a tissue based on the quenching time of an injectable phosphorescent probe wherein the adjunct operates independently of the stapler wherein adjunct is optionally coupled to the stapler.

Another embodiment includes a medical device configured for sensing tissue oxygenation the device comprising at least one sensor wherein at least one sensor of the device detects the optical response of an oxygen sensing probe.

The oxygen sensing probe has a phosphorescent optical response wherein the phosphorescent lifetime of the optical response is responsive to oxygen dependent quenching.

The surgical instrument further comprises a mechanism for ensuring consistent compression pressure on the tissue.

The surgical instrument may further comprises an injection system configured to deliver a medium to the tissue wherein the medium includes the oxygen sensing probes.

A surgical stapler anvil may be configured to assess oxygenation of a biological tissue at the site of an anastomosis wherein the assessment of oxygenation is based on oxygen dependent quenching time of an injectable phosphorescent probe.

An adjunct to a surgical stapler incorporating at least one sensor may be configured to assess oxygenation of a biological tissue wherein the assessment of oxygenation is based on oxygen dependent quenching time of an injectable phosphorescent probe wherein the adjunct operates independently of the stapler wherein adjunct is optionally coupled to the stapler.

A surgical system may include a surgical instrument configured to assess oxygenation of a biological tissue and a sensing device configured to assess tissue oxygenation that couples to a surgical stapler. The devices are configured to assess oxygenation of biological tissue using an injectable phosphorescent oxygen sensing probe.

An imaging system may be configured to provide a 2D map of tissue oxygenation wherein the imaging system generates the map responsive to oxygen dependent quenching of the phosphorescent response of oxygen sensitive molecules.

The surgical instrument may be configured for ophthalmic surgery wherein the instrument provides an oxygenation map of the retina.

The surgical instrument may be configured to assist in analysis of a target tissue wherein analysis is performed for at least one of before during and after creation of an anastomosis.

A surgical instrument may manipulate ipulating biological tissue wherein the instrument incorporates a microinjection system into the body of the instrument wherein the instrument further comprises one or more needles wherein the microinjection system controls injection of a medium into the tissue through the one or more needles.

A surgical instrument may manipulate biological tissue wherein the instrument comprises a means for producing constant compression pressure of the tissue against a surface of the instrument.

A method may manipulate an injectable probe wherein the probe incorporates ferromagnetic material and wherein a surgical instrument incorporates magnets to attract and retain the molecule.

A surgical instrument may incorporate a means for injection of medium into tissue and further incorporates a means for manipulating the location of the medium in the tissue after injection.

A method may maintain the position of a locally injected probe at the injection site in a tissue for a period of time wherein bioabsorbable entities are incorporated into the probes structure wherein the bioabsorbable entities detach from the probe and enable clearance from the body.

A method of sensing and discriminating oxygenation in two or more layers of tissue may be provided wherein oxygenation is sensed based on phosphorescent quenching time of a phosphorescent oxygen sensing probe wherein the probe has multiple absorption wavelengths that have different tissue absorption properties wherein the oxygen is discriminated based on the phosphorescent response due to multiple emission wavelengths.

A surgical instrument may comprise a plurality of sensing elements wherein at least the instrument is configured to assess tissue oxygenation based on the quenching time of an injectable phosphorescent probe wherein the instrument is further configured to sense at least one of tissue oxygenation blood oxygenation pulse rate pulse presence pulse rhythm tissue perfusion staple gap compression force tissue interaction force fluorescence tissue electrical impedance tissue electrical activity pH concentration of cellular respiration metabolites electromyography temperature fluid flow rate fluid flow volume tissue pressure blood pressure biomarkers radiotracers immunologic characteristics biochemical characteristics nerve activity an evoked potential oxygen delivery oxygen utilization tissue characterization tissue general health tissue flow dynamics tissue chemical composition tissue immunologic activity tissue pathogen concentration tissue water content blood hemoglobin content tissue chromophore content tissue neoplastic cell content and tissue dysplastic cell content.

The embodiments described above demonstrate how oxygen sensitive probes can be utilized with surgical instruments incorporating sensors. These embodiments are meant as illustrative purposes. The described sensing instruments and approaches can be adapted to provide the described functionalities for other surgical instruments or medical devices. Further the techniques discussed should not be construed to be limited to use only with phosphorescent oxygen sensing probes. Further still all references to phosphorescence or fluorescence more broadly may be applied to all light remitting phenomenon.

The present invention can be practiced by employing conventional materials methodology and equipment. Accordingly the details of such materials equipment and methodology are not set forth herein in detail. In the previous descriptions numerous specific details are set forth such as specific materials structures chemicals processes etc. in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However it should be recognized that the present invention can be practiced without resorting to the details specifically set forth. In other instances well known processing structures have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present invention.

Only exemplary embodiments of the present invention and but a few examples of its versatility are shown and described in the present disclosure. It is to be understood that the present invention is capable of use in various other combinations and environments and is capable of changes or modifications within the scope of the inventive concept as expressed herein.

Although the foregoing description is directed to the preferred embodiments of the invention it is noted that other variations and modifications will be apparent to those skilled in the art and may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Moreover features described in connection with one embodiment of the invention may be used in conjunction with other embodiments even if not explicitly stated above.

