---

title: Synergistic weed control from applications of penoxsulam and acetochlor
abstract: Disclosed herein are herbicidal compositions comprising a synergistic herbicidally effective amount of (a) penoxsulam or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof and (b) acetochlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof. Also disclosed herein are methods of controlling undesirable vegetation, which comprise applying to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applying to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation (a) penoxsulam or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof and (b) acetochlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof, wherein (a) and (b) are each added in an amount sufficient to produce a synergistic herbicidal effect.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09288989&OS=09288989&RS=09288989
owner: Dow AgroSciences LLC
number: 09288989
owner_city: Indianapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140224
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 768 802 filed Feb. 25 2013 the disclosure of which is expressly incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to herbicidal compositions comprising a synergistic herbicidally effective amount of a penoxsulam or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof and b acetochlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof. The present disclosure also relates to methods for controlling undesirable vegetation.

Many recurring problems in agriculture involve controlling growth of undesirable vegetation that can for instance inhibit crop growth. To help control undesirable vegetation researchers have produced a variety of chemicals and chemical formulations effective in controlling such unwanted growth. However a continuing need exists for new compositions and methods to control growth of undesirable vegetation.

Herbicides of many types have been disclosed in the literature and a number are in commercial use. In some cases herbicidal active ingredients have been found more effective in combination than when applied individually and this is referred to as synergy or synergism. The present disclosure is based on the discovery that a penoxsulam or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof and b acetochlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof display a synergistic herbicidal effect when applied in combination.

Accordingly the present disclosure relates to herbicidal compositions comprising a synergistic herbicidally effective amount of a penoxsulam or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof and b acetochlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof. The weight ratio of a to b can be from 1 2500 to 5 1 e.g. from 1 460 to 1 1 .

In some embodiments the composition further comprises an additional pesticide e.g. cyhalofop haloxyfop quizalofop fenoxaprop profoxydim oxyfluorfen triclopyr fluroxypyr atrazine terbuthylazine bensulfuron clopyralid flumetsulam S ethyl dipropylcarbamothioate EPTC metsulfuron agriculturally acceptable salts or esters thereof or combinations thereof . In some embodiments the composition further comprises a herbicidal safener an agriculturally acceptable adjuvant or carrier or a combination thereof.

The present disclosure also relates to methods of controlling undesirable vegetation which comprise applying to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applying to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation a penoxsulam or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof and b acetochlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof wherein a and b are each applied in an amount sufficient to produce a synergistic herbicidal effect. In some embodiments a and b are applied simultaneously. In some embodiments a and b are applied pre emergence of the undesirable vegetation.

The undesirable vegetation can be a broadleaf weed a grass weed a sedge weed or combinations thereof. In some embodiments the undesirable vegetation includes redroot pigweed lambsquarters swamp grass cleavers redshank pale persicaria black bindweed black nightshade field pansy purple nutsedge species of the genus or combinations thereof. The undesirable vegetation can be controlled in for instance cereals citrus coffee corn cotton maize onions oilseed rape canola soybeans sorghum sugarbeets sunflower vineyards rice sugarcane bearing and non bearing tree nuts and orchards grasses grown for seed pastures grasslands rangelands fallow land rights of way aquatic settings tree and vine ornamental species or turfgrass.

In some embodiments a is applied in an amount of from 2 50 grams of active ingredient per hectare g ai ha e.g. from 5 20 g ai ha . In some embodiments b is applied in an amount of from 10 5000 g ai ha e.g. from 15 2300 g ai ha .

The description below sets forth details of one or more embodiments of the present disclosure. Other features objects and advantages will be apparent from the description and from the claims.

The present disclosure relates to herbicidal compositions comprising a synergistic herbicidally effective amount of a penoxsulam or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof and b acetochlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof. The present disclosure also relates to methods for controlling undesirable vegetation.

The term herbicide as used herein means an active ingredient that kills controls or otherwise adversely modifies the growth of vegetation. A herbicidally effective amount is an amount of an active ingredient that causes a herbicidal effect i.e. an adversely modifying effect and includes deviations from for instance natural development killing regulation desiccation and retardation. The terms plants and vegetation can include for instance germinant seeds emerging seedlings and established vegetation.

Compositions and methods of the present disclosure can include penoxsulam i.e. 2 2 2 difluoroethoxy N 5 8 dimethoxy 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 c pyrimidin 2 yl 6 trifluoromethyl benzenesulfonamide or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof. Penoxsulam shown below is a triazolopyrimidine sulfonamide herbicide that provides broad spectrum control of many annual biannual and perennial weeds. Penoxsulam as well as methods of preparing penoxsulam are known in the art. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 858 924 to Loughner et al.

In some embodiments penoxsulam can be provided as an agriculturally acceptable salt of penoxsulam. Exemplary agriculturally acceptable salts of penoxsulam include but are not limited to sodium salts potassium salts ammonium salts or substituted ammonium salts in particular mono di and tri C C alkylammonium salts such as methylammonium dimethylammonium and isopropylammonium mono di and tri hydroxy C C alkylammonium salts such as hydroxyethylammonium di hydroxyethyl ammonium tri hydroxyethyl ammonium hydroxypropylammonium di hydroxypropyl ammonium and tri hydroxypropyl ammonium salts olamine salts and diglycolamine salts.

Penoxsulam can be used to control broadleaf weeds in for instance rice corn sorghum wheat barley and other cereal crops lawns e.g. residential industrial and institutional golf courses parks cemeteries athletic fields sod farms tree and vine crops range and pasture rights of way roadsides and other crop and non crop uses. Its herbicidal activity is described in Tomlin C. D. S. Ed. 15ed. BCPC Alton 2009 hereafter The Pesticide Manual Fifteenth Edition 2009 . Penoxsulam is or has been commercially available for example from Dow AgroSciences LLC under the trademarks FENCER RICER VIPER CLIPPER SAPPHIRE GRASP and GRANITE and from SePRO Corporation under the trademark GALLEON .

Penoxsulam or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof can be applied to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applied to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation in an amount sufficient to induce a herbicidal effect. In some embodiments the penoxsulam or agriculturally acceptable salt thereof is applied to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applied to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation in an amount of 2 grams or greater of active ingredient per hectare g ai ha e.g. 3 g ai ha or greater 4 g ai ha or greater 5 g ai ha or greater 7.5 g ai ha or greater 10 g ai ha or greater 15 g ai ha or greater 20 g ai ha or greater 25 g ai ha or greater 30 g ai ha or greater 35 g ai ha or greater 40 g ai ha or greater or 45 g ai ha or greater . In some embodiments the penoxsulam or agriculturally acceptable salt thereof is applied to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applied to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation in an amount of 50 g ai ha or less e.g. 45 g ai ha or less 40 g ai ha or less 35 g ai ha or less 30 g ai ha or less 25 g ai ha or less 20 g ai ha or less 15 g ai ha or less 10 g ai ha or less 7.5 g ai ha or less 5 g ai ha or less 4 g ai ha or less or 3 g ai ha or less .

Penoxsulam can be applied to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applied to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation in an amount ranging from any of the minimum values described above to any of the maximum values described above. In some embodiments the penoxsulam or agriculturally acceptable salt thereof is applied to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applied to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation in an amount of from 2 50 g ai ha e.g. from 2.5 40 g ai ha from 3 30 g ai ha from 4 25 g ai ha or from 5 20 g ai ha .

Compositions and methods of the present disclosure can include acetochlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof. Acetochlor i.e. 2 chloro N ethoxymethyl N 2 ethyl 6 methylphenyl acetamide shown below is a chloroacetamide herbicide that can be used to control annual grasses and broadleaf weeds in for instance in cabbage citrus coffee corn cotton green peas maize onions orchards soybeans sugar beets sunflower and vineyards. Its herbicidal activity is described in Fifteenth Edition 2009.

Acetochlor is or has been commercially available for example under the trademarks SURPASS by Dow AgroSciences LLC TOPNOTCH by Dow AgroSciences LLC TROPHY by Dow AgroSciences LLC RELAY by Dow AgroSciences LLC BREAKFREE by DuPont Crop Protection XINCHLOR by Jiangsu Xinyi Pesticide Ltd. ACENIT by Makhteshim Agan Group ACETOGAN by Makhteshim Agan Group FIRST ACT by Makhteshim Agan Group NITRIGUARD by Makhteshim Agan Group DEGREE by Monsanto Co. HARNESS by Monsanto Co. WARRANT by Monsanto Co. PILARPASS by Pilar AgriScience Corp. EAGROW by Shandong Kesai Eagrow Co. Ltd. ASER by Wangs Crop Science Co. Ltd. and COME TRUE by Wangs Crop Science Co. Ltd. .

The acetochlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof can be used in an amount sufficient to induce a herbicidal effect. In some embodiments the acetochlor or agriculturally acceptable salt thereof is applied to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applied to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation in an amount of 10 grams of active ingredient per hectare g ai ha or greater e.g. 15 g ai ha or greater 20 g ai ha or greater 25 g ai ha or greater 30 g ai ha or greater 40 g ai ha or greater 50 g ai ha or greater 75 g ai ha or greater 100 g ai ha or greater 150 g ai ha or greater 200 g ai ha or greater 250 g ai ha or greater 300 g ai ha or greater 400 g ai ha or greater 500 g ai ha or greater 600 g ai ha or greater 700 g ai ha or greater 750 g ai ha or greater 800 g ai ha or greater 900 g ai ha or greater 1000 g ai ha or greater 1100 g ai ha or greater 1200 g ai ha or greater 1250 g ai ha or greater 1300 g ai ha or greater 1400 g ai ha or greater 1500 g ai ha or greater 1600 g ai ha or greater 1700 g ai ha or greater 1750 g ai ha or greater 1800 g ai ha or greater 1900 g ai ha or greater 2000 g ai ha or greater 2100 g ai ha or greater 2200 g ai ha or greater 2250 g ai ha or greater 2300 g ai ha or greater 2400 g ai ha or greater 2500 g ai ha or greater 2750 g ai ha or greater 3000 g ai ha or greater 3250 g ai ha or greater 3500 g ai ha or greater 3750 g ai ha or greater 4000 g ai ha or greater 4250 g ai ha or greater 4500 g ai ha or greater or 4750 g ai ha or greater . In some embodiments the acetochlor or agriculturally acceptable salt thereof is applied to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applied to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation in an amount of 5000 g ai ha or less e.g. 4750 g ai ha or less 4500 g ai ha or less 4250 g ai ha or less 4000 g ai ha or less 3750 g ai ha or less 3500 g ai ha or less 3250 g ai ha or less 3000 g ai ha or less 2750 g ai ha or less 2500 g ai ha or less 2400 g ai ha or less 2300 g ai ha or less 2250 g ai ha or less 2200 g ai ha or less 2100 g ai ha or less 2000 g ai ha or less 1900 g ai ha or less 1800 g ai ha or less 1750 g ai ha or less 1700 g ai ha or less 1600 g ai ha or less 1500 g ai ha or less 1400 g ai ha or less 1300 g ai ha or less 1250 g ai ha or less 1200 g ai ha or less 1100 g ai ha or less 1000 g ai ha or less 900 g ai ha or less 800 g ai ha or less 750 g ai ha or less 700 g ai ha or less 600 g ai ha or less 500 g ai ha or less 400 g ai ha or less 300 g ai ha or less 250 g ai ha or less 200 g ai ha or less 150 g ai ha or less 100 g ai ha or less 75 g ai ha or less 50 g ai ha or less 40 g ai ha or less 30 g ai ha or less 25 g ai ha or less 20 g ai ha or less or 15 g ai ha or less .

Acetochlor can be applied to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applied to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation in an amount ranging from any of the minimum values described above to any of the maximum values described above. In some embodiments the acetochlor or agriculturally acceptable salt thereof is applied to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applied to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation in an amount of from 10 5000 g ai ha e.g. from 12.5 4500 g ai ha from 15 4300 g ai ha from 15 3800 g ai ha from 15 3300 g ai ha from 15 2800 g ai ha or from 15 2300 g ai ha .

The a penoxsulam or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof is mixed with or applied in combination with b acetochlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof in an amount sufficient to induce a synergistic herbicidal effect. In some embodiments a and b are used in an amount sufficient to induce a synergistic herbicidal effect while still showing good crop compatibility i.e. their use in crops does not result in increased damage to crops when compared to the individual application of the herbicidal compounds a or b . As described in the of the Weed Science Society of America Ninth Edition 2007 p. 429 synergism is an interaction of two or more factors such that the effect when combined is greater than the predicted effect based on the response to each factor applied separately. Synergistic in the herbicide context can mean that the use of a and b as defined above results in an increased weed control effect compared to the weed control effects that are possible with the use of a or b alone. In some embodiments the damage or injury to the undesired vegetation caused by the compositions and methods disclosed herein is evaluated using a scale from 0 to 100 when compared with the untreated control vegetation wherein 0 indicates no damage to the undesired vegetation and 100 indicates complete destruction of the undesired vegetation. In some embodiments Colby s formula is applied to determine whether using a and b in combination shows a synergistic effect S. R. Colby 1967 15 20 22

X effect in percent using a penoxsulam or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof at an application rate a 

Y effect in percent using b acetochlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof at an application rate b 

In Colby s equation the value E corresponds to the effect plant damage or injury that is to be expected if the activity of the individual compounds is additive. If the observed effect is higher than the value E calculated according to the Colby equation then a synergistic effect is present according to the Colby equation.

In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein are synergistic as defined by the Colby equation. In some embodiments the joint action of penoxsulam or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof and acetochlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof results in enhanced activity against undesired vegetation via synergism even at application rates below those typically used for the pesticide to have a herbicidal effect on its own. In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can based on the individual components be used at lower application rates to achieve a herbicidal effect comparable to the effect produced by the individual components at normal application rates. In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein provide an accelerated action on undesired vegetation i.e. they effect damaging of undesired vegetation more quickly compared with application of the individual herbicides .

In some embodiments the weight ratio of a penoxsulam or agriculturally acceptable salt thereof to b acetochlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof that is sufficient to induce a synergistic herbicidal effect is at least 1 2500 e.g. at least 1 2250 at least 1 2000 at least 1 1750 at least 1 1500 at least 1 1250 at least 1 1000 at least 1 750 at least 1 700 at least 1 600 at least 1 500 at least 1 450 at least 1 400 at least 1 380 at least 1 360 at least 1 350 at least 1 340 at least 1 320 at least 1 300 at least 1 280 at least 1 260 at least 1 250 at least 1 240 at least 1 220 at least 1 200 at least 1 180 at least 1 160 at least 1 150 at least 1 140 at least 1 120 at least 1 100 at least 1 80 at least 1 75 at least 1 70 at least 1 60 at least 1 50 at least 1 45 at least 1 40 at least 1 35 at least 1 30 at least 1 25 at least 1 20 at least 1 15 at least 1 10 at least 1 9 at least 1 8 at least 1 7 at least 1 6 at least 1 5 at least 1 4 at least 1 3 at least 1 2 at least 1 1 at least 5 4 at least 4 3 at least 3 2 at least 2 1 at least 5 2 at least 3 1 at least 7 2 at least 4 1 or at least 9 2 . In some embodiments the weight ratio of a to b that is sufficient to induce a synergistic herbicidal effect is 5 1 or less e.g. 9 2 or less 4 1 or less 7 2 or less 3 1 or less 5 2 or less 2 1 or less 3 2 or less 4 3 or less 5 4 or less 1 1 or less 1 2 or less 1 3 or less 1 4 or less 1 5 or less 1 6 or less 1 7 or less 1 8 or less 1 9 or less 1 10 or less 1 15 or less 1 20 or less 1 25 or less 1 30 or less 1 35 or less 1 40 or less 1 45 or less 1 50 or less 1 60 or less 1 70 or less 1 75 or less 1 80 or less 1 90 or less 1 100 or less 1 120 or less 1 140 or less 1 150 or less 1 160 or less 1 180 or less 1 200 or less 1 220 or less 1 240 or less 1 250 or less 1 260 or less 1 280 or less 1 300 or less 1 320 or less 1 340 or less 1 350 or less 1 360 or less 1 380 or less 1 400 or less 1 450 or less 1 500 or less 1 600 or less 1 700 or less 1 750 or less 1 1000 or less 1 1250 or less 1 1500 or less 1 1750 or less 1 2000 or less or 1 2250 or less .

The weight ratio of a penoxsulam or agriculturally acceptable salt thereof to b acetochlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof that is sufficient to induce a synergistic herbicidal effect can range from any of the minimum ratios described above to any of the maximum values described above. In some embodiments the weight ratio of a penoxsulam or agriculturally acceptable salt thereof to b acetochlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof that is sufficient to induce a synergistic herbicidal effect is from 1 2500 to 5 1 e.g. from 1 2000 to 4 1 from 1 1000 to 7 2 from 1 800 to 3 1 from 1 600 to 5 2 from 1 500 to 2 1 1 460 to 1 1 from 1 400 to 3 2 or from 1 360 to 4 3 .

The present disclosure also relates to formulations of the compositions and methods disclosed herein. In some embodiments the formulation can be in the form of a single package formulation including both a penoxsulam or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof and b acetochlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof. In some embodiments the formulation can be in the form of a single package formulation including both a and b and further including at least one additive. In some embodiments the formulation can be in the form of a two package formulation wherein one package contains a and optionally at least one additive while the other package contains b and optionally at least one additive. In some embodiments of the two package formulation the formulation including a and optionally at least one additive and the formulation including b and optionally at least one additive are mixed before application and then applied simultaneously. In some embodiments the mixing is performed as a tank mix i.e. the formulations are mixed immediately before or upon dilution with water . In some embodiments the formulation including a and the formulation including b are not mixed but are applied sequentially in succession for example immediately or within 1 hour within 2 hours within 4 hours within 8 hours within 16 hours within 24 hours within 2 days or within 3 days of each other.

In some embodiments the formulation of a and b is present in suspended emulsified or dissolved form. Exemplary formulations include but are not limited to aqueous solutions powders suspensions also highly concentrated aqueous oily or other suspensions or dispersions aqueous emulsions aqueous microemulsions aqueous suspo emulsions oil dispersions pastes dusts and materials for spreading or granules.

In some embodiments a penoxsulam or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof and or b acetochlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof is an aqueous solution that can be diluted before use. In some embodiments a and or b is provided as a high strength formulation such as a concentrate. In some embodiments the concentrate is stable and retains potency during storage and shipping. In some embodiments the concentrate is a clear homogeneous liquid that is stable at temperatures of 54 C. or greater. In some embodiments the concentrate does not exhibit any precipitation of solids at temperatures of 10 C. or higher. In some embodiments the concentrate does not exhibit separation precipitation or crystallization of any components at low temperatures. For example the concentrate remains a clear solution at temperatures below 0 C. e.g. below 5 C. below 10 C. below 15 C. . In some embodiments the concentrate exhibits a viscosity of less than 50 centipoise 50 megapascals even at temperatures as low as 5 C.

The compositions and methods disclosed herein can also be mixed with or applied with an additive. In some embodiments the additive can be diluted in water or can be concentrated. In some embodiments the additive is added sequentially. In some embodiments the additive is added simultaneously. In some embodiments the additive is premixed with the penoxsulam or agriculturally acceptable salt thereof. In some embodiments the additive is premixed with the acetochlor or agriculturally acceptable salt thereof. In some embodiments the additive is premixed with the penoxsulam or agriculturally acceptable salt thereof and the acetochlor or agriculturally acceptable salt thereof.

In some embodiments the additive is an additional pesticide. For example the compositions described herein can be applied in conjunction with one or more additional herbicides to control undesirable vegetation. The composition can be formulated with the one or more additional herbicides tank mixed with the one or more additional herbicides or applied sequentially with the one or more additional herbicides. Exemplary additional herbicides include but are not limited to 4 CPA 4 CPB 4 CPP 2 4 D 2 4 D choline salt 2 4 D esters and amines 2 4 DB 3 4 DA 3 4 DB 2 4 DEB 2 4 DEP 3 4 DP 2 3 6 TBA 2 4 5 T 2 4 5 TB acifluorfen aclonifen acrolein alachlor allidochlor alloxydim allyl alcohol alorac ametridione ametryn amibuzin amicarbazone amidosulfuron aminocyclopyrachlor aminopyralid amiprofos methyl amitrole ammonium sulfamate anilofos anisuron asulam atraton atrazine azafenidin azimsulfuron aziprotryne barban BCPC beflubutamid benazolin bencarbazone benfluralin benfuresate bensulfuron methyl bensulide benthiocarb bentazon sodium benzadox benzfendizone benzipram benzobicyclon benzofenap benzofluor benzoylprop benzthiazuron bicyclopyrone bifenox bilanafos bispyribac sodium borax bromacil bromobonil bromobutide bromofenoxim bromoxynil brompyrazon butachlor butafenacil butamifos butenachlor buthidazole buthiuron butralin butroxydim buturon butylate cacodylic acid cafenstrole calcium chlorate calcium cyanamide cambendichlor carbasulam carbetamide carboxazole chlorprocarb carfentrazone ethyl CDEA CEPC chlomethoxyfen chloramben chloranocryl chlorazifop chlorazine chlorbromuron chlorbufam chloreturon chlorfenac chlorfenprop chlorflurazole chlorflurenol chloridazon chlorimuron chlornitrofen chloropon chlorotoluron chloroxuron chloroxynil chlorpropham chlorsulfuron chlorthal chlorthiamid cinidon ethyl cinmethylin cinosulfuron cisanilide clethodim cliodinate clodinafop propargyl clofop clomazone clomeprop cloprop cloproxydim clopyralid cloransulam methyl CMA copper sulfate CPMF CPPC credazine cresol cumyluron cyanatryn cyanazine cycloate cyclopyrimorate cyclosulfamuron cycloxydim cycluron cyhalofop butyl cyperquat cyprazine cyprazole cypromid daimuron dalapon dazomet delachlor desmedipham desmetryn di allate dicamba dichlobenil dichloralurea dichlormate dichlorprop dichlorprop P diclofop methyl diclosulam diethamquat diethatyl difenopenten difenoxuron difenzoquat diflufenican diflufenzopyr dimefuron dimepiperate dimethachlor dimethametryn dimethenamid dimethenamid P dimexano dimidazon dinitramine dinofenate dinoprop dinosam dinoseb dinoterb diphenamid dipropetryn diquat disul dithiopyr diuron DMPA DNOC DSMA EBEP eglinazine endothal epronaz EPTC erbon esprocarb ethalfluralin ethametsulfuron ethidimuron ethiolate ethofumesate ethoxyfen ethoxysulfuron etinofen etnipromid etobenzanid EXD fenasulam fenoprop fenoxaprop fenoxaprop P ethyl fenoxaprop P ethyl isoxadifen ethyl fenoxasulfone fenteracol fenthiaprop fentrazamide fenuron ferrous sulfate flamprop flamprop M flazasulfuron florasulam fluazifop fluazifop P butyl fluazolate flucarbazone flucetosulfuron fluchloralin flufenacet flufenican flufenpyr ethyl flumetsulam flumezin flumiclorac pentyl flumioxazin flumipropyn fluometuron fluorodifen fluoroglycofen fluoromidine fluoronitrofen fluothiuron flupoxam flupropacil flupropanate flupyrsulfuron fluridone flurochloridone fluroxypyr fluroxypyr meptyl flurtamone fluthiacet fomesafen foramsulfuron fosamine fumiclorac furyloxyfen glufosinate glufosinate ammonium glufosinate P ammonium glyphosate salts and esters halauxifen halauxifen methyl halosafen halosulfuron methyl haloxydine haloxyfop methyl haloxyfop P methyl hexachloroacetone hexaflurate hexazinone imazamethabenz imazamox imazapic imazapyr imazaquin imazosulfuron imazethapyr indanofan indaziflam iodobonil iodomethane iodosulfuron iodosulfuron ethyl sodium iofensulfuron ioxynil ipazine ipfencarbazone iprymidam isocarbamid isocil isomethiozin isonoruron isopolinate isopropalin isoproturon isouron isoxaben isoxachlortole isoxaflutole isoxapyrifop karbutilate ketospiradox lactofen lenacil linuron MAA MAMA MCPA esters and amines MCPA thioethyl MCPB mecoprop mecoprop P medinoterb mefenacet mefluidide mesoprazine mesosulfuron mesotrione metam metamifop metamitron metazachlor metazosulfuron metflurazon methabenzthiazuron methalpropalin methazole methiobencarb methiozolin methiuron methometon methoprotryne methyl bromide methyl isothiocyanate methyldymron metobenzuron metobromuron metolachlor metosulam metoxuron metribuzin metsulfuron metsulfuron methyl molinate monalide monisouron monochloroacetic acid monolinuron monuron morfamquat MSMA naproanilide napropamide napropamide M naptalam neburon nicosulfuron nipyraclofen nitralin nitrofen nitrofluorfen norflurazon noruron OCH orbencarb ortho dichlorobenzene orthosulfamuron oryzalin oxadiargyl oxadiazon oxapyrazon oxasulfuron oxaziclomefone oxyfluorfen paraflufen ethyl parafluron paraquat pebulate pelargonic acid pendimethalin pentachlorophenol pentanochlor pentoxazone perfluidone pethoxamid phenisopham phenmedipham phenmedipham ethyl phenobenzuron phenylmercury acetate picloram picolinafen pinoxaden piperophos potassium arsenite potassium azide potassium cyanate pretilachlor primisulfuron methyl procyazine prodiamine profluazol profluralin profoxydim proglinazine prohexadione calcium prometon prometryn pronamide propachlor propanil propaquizafop propazine propham propisochlor propoxycarbazone propyrisulfuron propyzamide prosulfalin prosulfocarb prosulfuron proxan prynachlor pydanon pyraclonil pyraflufen ethyl pyrasulfotole pyrazogyl pyrazolynate pyrazosulfuron ethyl pyrazoxyfen pyribenzoxim pyributicarb pyriclor pyridafol pyridate pyriftalid pyriminobac methyl pyrimisulfan pyrithiobac sodium pyroxasulfone pyroxsulam quinclorac quinmerac quinoclamine quinonamid quizalofop quizalofop P ethyl rhodethanil rimsulfuron saflufenacil S metolachlor sebuthylazine secbumeton sethoxydim siduron simazine simeton simetryn SMA sodium arsenite sodium azide sodium chlorate sulcotrione sulfallate sulfentrazone sulfometuron sulfosate sulfosulfuron sulfuric acid sulglycapin swep TCA tebutam tebuthiuron tefuryltrione tembotrione tepraloxydim terbacil terbucarb terbuchlor terbumeton terbuthylazine terbutryn tetrafluron thenylchlor thiazafluron thiazopyr thidiazimin thidiazuron thiencarbazone methyl thifensulfuron thifensulfuron methyl thiobencarb tiocarbazil tioclorim topramezone tralkoxydim triafamone tri allate triasulfuron triaziflam tribenuron tribenuron methyl tricamba triclopyr choline salt triclopyr esters and amines tridiphane trietazine trifloxysulfuron trifluralin triflusulfuron trifop trifopsime trihydroxytriazine trimeturon tripropindan tritac tritosulfuron vernolate xylachlor and salts esters optically active isomers and mixtures thereof.

In certain embodiments the additional pesticide includes cyhalofop e.g. cyhalofop butyl haloxyfop quizalofop e.g. quizalofop P ethyl fenoxaprop profoxydim oxyfluorfen triclopyr fluroxypyr atrazine terbuthylazine bensulfuron e.g. bensulfuron methyl clopyralid flumetsulam S ethyl dipropylcarbamothioate EPTC metsulfuron e.g. metsulfuron methyl and agriculturally acceptable salts or esters thereof or combinations thereof.

In some embodiments the penoxsulam or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof is provided in a premixed formulation with an additional pesticide. In some embodiments the penoxsulam or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof is premixed with cyhalofop butyl oxyfluorfen triclopyr or combinations thereof. Exemplary premixes of penoxsulam or an agriculturally acceptable salt or ester thereof and an additive that are or have been commercially available include but are not limited to CLINTON a premix incorporating cyhalofop butyl by Dow AgroSciences LLC REBEL EX a premix incorporating cyhalofop butyl by Dow AgroSciences LLC RICER a premix incorporating cyhalofop butyl by Dow AgroSciences LLC PINDAR GT a premix incorporating oxyfluorfen by Dow AgroSciences LLC and GRASP XTRA a premix incorporating triclopyr by Dow AgroSciences LLC .

In some embodiments the acetochlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof is provided in a premixed formulation with an additional pesticide. In some embodiments the acetochlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof is premixed with atrazine terbuthylazine bensulfuron methyl clopyralid flumetsulam S ethyl dipropylcarbamothioate EPTC flurochloridone metsulfuron methyl quizalofop P ethyl or combinations thereof. Exemplary premixes of acetochlor or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof and an additive that are or have been commercially available include but are not limited to BREAKFREE ATZ a premix incorporating atrazine by DuPont Crop Protection BREAKFREE ATZ LITE a premix incorporating atrazine by DuPont Crop Protection CADENCE ATZ a premix incorporating atrazine by Loveland Products Inc. CADENCE ATZ LITE a premix incorporating atrazine by Loveland Products Inc. CONFIDENCE XTRA a premix incorporating atrazine by Winfield Solutions LLC DEGREE XTRA a premix incorporating atrazine by Monsanto Co. DOUBLE TEAM a premix incorporating atrazine by Makhteshim Agan Group FT a premix incorporating atrazine by Dow AgroSciences LLC HARNESS XTRA a premix incorporating atrazine by Monsanto Co. KEYSTONE a premix incorporating atrazine by Dow AgroSciences LLC KEYSTONE LA a premix incorporating atrazine by Dow AgroSciences LLC SIGMA COMBI a premix incorporating atrazine by Willowood Ltd. RIVAL a premix incorporating atrazine and terbuthylazine by Meridian Agrochemical Pty. Ltd. t a Meridian Agritech LONG GENG a premix incorporating bensulfuron methyl by Shanghai Agro Chemical Industry Co. Ltd. SURESTART a premix incorporating clopyralid and flumetsulam by Dow AgroSciences LLC TRIPLEFLEX a premix incorporating clopyralid and flumetsulam by Monsanto Co. IMPERIUM a premix incorporating EPTC by Gowan Company TWINPACK a premix incorporating flurochloridone by Makhteshim Agan Group MIECAOBAO a premix incorporating metsulfuron methyl by Guangxi Beihai Penshibao Co. Ltd. YANGFU YICAO AN a premix incorporating oxyfluorfen by Nanjing Red Sun Co. Ltd. SHUANG CAO JINGO a premix incorporating quizalofop P ethyl by Shanghai Agro Chemical Industry Co. Ltd. 

In some embodiments the additive includes an agriculturally acceptable adjuvant. Exemplary agriculturally acceptable adjuvants include but are not limited to antifreeze agents antifoam agents compatibilizing agents sequestering agents neutralizing agents and buffers corrosion inhibitors colorants odorants penetration aids wetting agents spreading agents dispersing agents thickening agents freeze point depressants antimicrobial agents crop oil safeners adhesives for instance for use in seed formulations surfactants protective colloids emulsifiers tackifiers and mixtures thereof. Exemplary agriculturally acceptable adjuvants include but are not limited to crop oil concentrate mineral oil 85 emulsifiers 15 or less nonylphenol ethoxylate or less benzylcocoalkyldimethyl quaternary ammonium salt or less blend of petroleum hydrocarbon alkyl esters organic acid and anionic surfactant or less C Calkylpolyglycoside or less phosphate alcohol ethoxylate or less natural primary alcohol C C ethoxylate or less di sec butylphenol EO PO block copolymer or less polysiloxane methyl cap or less nonylphenol ethoxylate urea ammonium nitrate or less emulsified methylated seed oil or less tridecyl alcohol synthetic ethoxylate 8 EO or less tallow amine ethoxylate 15 EO or less and PEG 400 dioleate 99.

In some embodiments the additive is a safener that is an organic compound leading to better crop plant compatibility when applied with a herbicide. In some embodiments the safener itself is herbicidally active. In some the safener acts as an antidote or antagonist in the crop plants and can reduce or prevent damage to the crop plants. Exemplary safeners include but are not limited to AD 67 MON 4660 benoxacor benthiocarb brassinolide cloquintocet mexyl cyometrinil cyprosulfamide daimuron dichlormid dicyclonon dietholate dimepiperate disulfoton fenchlorazole fenchlorazole ethyl fenclorim flurazole fluxofenim furilazole harpin proteins isoxadifen ethyl jiecaowan jiecaoxi mefenpyr mefenpyr diethyl mephenate naphthalic anhydride 2 2 5 trimethyl 3 dichloroacetyl 1 3 oxazolidine 4 dichloroacetyl 1 oxa 4 azaspiro 4.5 decane oxabetrinil R29148 and N phenyl sulfonylbenzoic acid amides as well as agriculturally acceptable salts and provided they have a carboxyl group their agriculturally acceptable derivatives thereof.

In some embodiments the safener can be cloquintocet or an ester or salt thereof such as cloquintocet mexyl . In some embodiments the safener can be dichlormid. In some embodiments the safener is employed in rice cereal corn or maize. For example dichlormid or cloquintocet can be used to antagonize harmful effects of the compositions on rice row crops and cereals.

Exemplary surfactants e.g. wetting agents tackifiers dispersants emulsifiers include but are not limited to the alkali metal salts alkaline earth metal salts and ammonium salts of aromatic sulfonic acids for example lignosulfonic acids phenolsulfonic acids naphthalenesulfonic acids and dibutylnaphthalenesulfonic acid and of fatty acids alkyl and alkylarylsulfonates alkyl sulfates lauryl ether sulfates and fatty alcohol sulfates and salts of sulfated hexa hepta and octadecanols and also of fatty alcohol glycol ethers condensates of sulfonated naphthalene and its derivatives with formaldehyde condensates of naphthalene or of the naphthalene sulfonic acids with phenol and formaldehyde polyoxyethylene octylphenol ether ethoxylated isooctyl octyl or nonylphenol alkylphenyl or tributylphenyl polyglycol ether alkyl aryl polyether alcohols isotridecyl alcohol fatty alcohol ethylene oxide condensates ethoxylated castor oil polyoxyethylene alkyl ethers or polyoxypropylene alkyl ethers lauryl alcohol polyglycol ether acetate sorbitol esters lignosulfite waste liquors and proteins denatured proteins polysaccharides e.g. methylcellulose hydrophobically modified starches polyvinyl alcohol polycarboxylates polyalkoxylates polyvinyl amine polyethyleneimine polyvinylpyrrolidone and copolymers thereof.

Exemplary thickeners include but are not limited to polysaccharides such as xanthan gum and organic and inorganic sheet minerals and mixtures thereof.

Exemplary antifoam agents include but are not limited to silicone emulsions long chain alcohols fatty acids salts of fatty acids organofluorine compounds and mixtures thereof.

Exemplary antimicrobial agents include but are not limited to bactericides based on dichlorophen and benzyl alcohol hemiformal and isothiazolinone derivates such as alkylisothiazolinones and benzisothiazolinones and mixtures thereof.

Exemplary antifreeze agents include but are not limited to ethylene glycol propylene glycol urea glycerol and mixtures thereof.

Exemplary colorants include but are not limited to the dyes known under the names Rhodamine B pigment blue 15 4 pigment blue 15 3 pigment blue 15 2 pigment blue 15 1 pigment blue 80 pigment yellow 1 pigment yellow 13 pigment red 112 pigment red 48 2 pigment red 48 1 pigment red 57 1 pigment red 53 1 pigment orange 43 pigment orange 34 pigment orange 5 pigment green 36 pigment green 7 pigment white 6 pigment brown 25 basic violet 10 basic violet 49 acid red 51 acid red 52 acid red 14 acid blue 9 acid yellow 23 basic red 10 basic red 108 and mixtures thereof.

Exemplary adhesives include but are not limited to polyvinylpyrrolidone polyvinyl acetate polyvinyl alcohol tylose and mixtures thereof.

In some embodiments the additive includes a carrier. In some embodiments the additive includes a liquid or solid carrier. In some embodiments the additive includes an organic or inorganic carrier. Exemplary liquid carriers include but are not limited to petroleum fractions or hydrocarbons such as mineral oil aromatic solvents paraffinic oils and the like or less vegetable oils such as soybean oil rapeseed oil olive oil castor oil sunflower seed oil coconut oil corn oil cottonseed oil linseed oil palm oil peanut oil safflower oil sesame oil tung oil and the like or less esters of the above vegetable oils or less esters of monoalcohols or dihydric trihydric or other lower polyalcohols 4 6 hydroxy containing such as 2 ethyl hexyl stearate n butyl oleate isopropyl myristate propylene glycol dioleate di octyl succinate di butyl adipate di octyl phthalate and the like or less esters of mono di and polycarboxylic acids and the like toluene xylene petroleum naphtha crop oil acetone methyl ethyl ketone cyclohexanone trichloroethylene perchloroethylene ethyl acetate amyl acetate butyl acetate propylene glycol monomethyl ether and diethylene glycol monomethyl ether methyl alcohol ethyl alcohol isopropyl alcohol amyl alcohol ethylene glycol propylene glycol glycerine N methyl 2 pyrrolidinone N N dimethyl alkylamides dimethyl sulfoxide liquid fertilizers and the like and water as well as mixtures thereof. Exemplary solid carriers include but are not limited to silicas silica gels silicates talc kaolin limestone lime chalk bole loess clay dolomite diatomaceous earth calcium sulfate magnesium sulfate magnesium oxide ground synthetic materials pyrophyllite clay attapulgus clay kieselguhr calcium carbonate bentonite clay Fuller s earth cottonseed hulls wheat flour soybean flour pumice wood flour walnut shell flour lignin ammonium sulfate ammonium phosphate ammonium nitrate ureas cereal meal tree bark meal wood meal and nutshell meal cellulose powders and mixtures thereof.

In some embodiments emulsions pastes or oil dispersions can be prepared by homogenizing a and b in water by means of wetting agent tackifier dispersant or emulsifier. In some embodiments concentrates suitable for dilution with water are prepared comprising a b a wetting agent a tackifier and a dispersant or emulsifier.

In some embodiments powders or materials for spreading and dusts can be prepared by mixing or concomitant grinding of a and b and optionally a safener with a solid carrier.

In some embodiments granules e.g. coated granules impregnated granules and homogeneous granules can be prepared by binding the a and b to solid carriers.

The formulations disclosed herein can comprise a synergistic herbicidally effective amount of a and b . In some embodiments the concentrations of a and b in the formulations can be varied. In some embodiments the formulations comprise from 1 to 95 e.g. from 5 to 95 from 10 to 80 from 20 to 70 from 30 to 50 by total weight of a and b . In formulations designed to be employed as concentrates a and b can be present in a concentration of from 0.1 to 98 weight percent 0.5 to 90 weight percent based on the total weight of the formulation. Concentrates can be diluted with an inert carrier such as water prior to application. The diluted formulations applied to undesired vegetation or the locus of undesired vegetation can contain from 0.0006 to 8.0 weight percent of a and b e.g. from 0.001 to 5.0 weight percent based on the total weight of the diluted formulation.

In some embodiments a and b independently can be employed in a purity of from 90 to 100 e.g. from 95 to 100 according to nuclear magnetic resonance NMR spectrometry. In some embodiments the concentrations of a b and additional pesticides in the formulations can be varied. In some embodiments the formulations comprise from 1 to 95 e.g. from 5 to 95 from 10 to 80 from 20 to 70 from 30 to 50 by total weight of a b and additional pesticides. In some embodiments a b and additional pesticides independently can be employed in a purity of from 90 to 100 e.g. from 95 to 100 according to NMR spectrometry.

The compositions disclosed herein can be applied in any known technique for applying herbicides. Exemplary application techniques include but are not limited to spraying atomizing dusting spreading or direct application into water in water . The method of application can vary depending on the intended purpose. In some embodiments the method of application can be chosen to ensure the finest possible distribution of the compositions disclosed herein.

The compositions disclosed herein can be applied pre emergence before the emergence of undesirable vegetation or post emergence i.e. during and or after emergence of the undesirable vegetation . The compositions can be applies as an in water application e.g. to a flooded paddy rice or body of water .

When the compositions are used in crops the compositions can be applied after seeding and before or after the emergence of the crop plants. In some embodiments the compositions disclosed herein show good crop tolerance even when the crop has already emerged and can be applied during or after the emergence of the crop plants. In some embodiments when the compositions are used in crops the compositions can be applied before seeding of the crop plants.

In some embodiments the compositions disclosed herein are applied to vegetation or an area adjacent the vegetation or applied to soil or water to prevent the emergence or growth of vegetation by spraying e.g. foliar spraying . In some embodiments the spraying techniques use for example water as carrier and spray liquor rates of from 10 liters per hectare L ha to 2000 L ha e.g. from 50 L ha to 1000 L ha or from 100 to 500 L ha . In some embodiments the compositions disclosed herein are applied by the low volume or the ultra low volume method wherein the application is in the form of micro granules. In some embodiments wherein the compositions disclosed herein are less well tolerated by certain crop plants the compositions can be applied with the aid of the spray apparatus in such a way that they come into little contact if any with the leaves of the sensitive crop plants while reaching the leaves of undesirable vegetation that grows underneath or the bare soil e.g. post directed or lay by .

In some embodiments herbicidal activity is exhibited by the compounds of the synergistic mixture when they are applied directly to the plant or to the locus of the plant at any stage of growth or before planting or emergence. The effect observed can depend upon the type of undesirable vegetation to be controlled the stage of growth of the undesirable vegetation the application parameters of dilution and spray drop size the particle size of solid components the environmental conditions at the time of use the specific compound employed the specific adjuvants and carriers employed the soil type and the like as well as the amount of chemical applied. In some embodiments these and other factors can be adjusted to promote non selective or selective herbicidal action. In some cases the compositions are applied to relatively immature undesirable vegetation.

The compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used to control undesired vegetation in a variety of crop and non crop applications. In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used for controlling undesired vegetation in crops. Exemplary crops include but are not limited to cereals citrus coffee corn cotton maize onions oilseed rape canola soybeans sorghum sugar beets sunflower vineyards rice sugarcane bearing and non bearing tree nuts and orchards grasses grown for seed and ornamental species. In some embodiments the undesirable vegetation is controlled in a row crop e.g. corn sorghum soybean cotton or oilseed rape canola . In certain embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used for controlling undesired vegetation in corn. In certain embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used for controlling undesired vegetation in sorghum. In certain embodiments the compositions and methods provided herein are utilized to control undesirable vegetation in rice e.g. direct seeded water seeded or transplanted rice .

The compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used for controlling undesired vegetation in non crop areas. Exemplary non crop areas include but are not limited to turfgrass pastures grasslands rangelands fallow land rights of way aquatic settings tree and vine wildlife management areas or rangeland. In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used in industrial vegetation management IVM or for utility pipeline roadside and railroad rights of way applications. In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can also be used in forestry e.g. for site preparation or for combating undesirable vegetation in plantation forests . In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used to control undesirable vegetation in conservation reserve program lands CRP trees vines grasslands and grasses grown for seeds. In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used on lawns e.g. residential industrial and institutional golf courses parks cemeteries athletic fields and sod farms.

The compositions and methods disclosed herein can also be used in crop plants that are resistant to for instance herbicides pathogens and or insects. In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used in crop plants that are resistant to one or more herbicides because of genetic engineering or breeding. In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used in crop plants that are resistant to one or more pathogens such as plant pathogenous fungi owing to genetic engineering or breeding. In some embodiments the compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used in crop plants that are resistant to attack by insects owing to genetic engineering or breeding. Exemplary resistant crops include but are not limited to cereals citrus coffee corn cotton maize onions oilseed rape canola soybeans sorghum sugar beets sunflower vineyards rice sugarcane bearing and non bearing tree nuts and orchards grasses grown for seed tree and vine ornamental species and turfgrass that are resistant to synthetic auxins or crop plants that owing to introduction of the gene for or Bt toxin by genetic modification are resistant to attack by certain insects. In some embodiments the compositions and methods described herein also can be used in conjunction with glyphosate glufosinate dicamba phenoxy auxins pyridyloxy auxins aryloxyphenoxypropionates acetyl CoA carboxylase ACCase inhibitors imidazolinones acetolactate synthase ALS inhibitors 4 hydroxyphenyl pyruvate dioxygenase HPPD inhibitors protoporphyrinogen oxidase PPO inhibitors triazines and bromoxynil to control vegetation in crops tolerant to glyphosate glufosinate dicamba phenoxy auxins pyridyloxy auxins aryloxyphenoxypropionates acetyl CoA carboxylase ACCase inhibitors imidazolinones acetolactate synthase ALS inhibitors 4 hydroxyphenyl pyruvate dioxygenase HPPD inhibitors protoporphyrinogen oxidase PPO inhibitors triazines bromoxynil or combinations thereof. In some embodiments the undesirable vegetation is controlled in glyphosate glufosinate dicamba phenoxy auxins pyridyloxy auxins aryloxyphenoxypropionates acetyl CoA carboxylase ACCase inhibitors imidazolinones acetolactate synthase ALS inhibitors 4 hydroxyphenyl pyruvate dioxygenase HPPD inhibitors protoporphyrinogen oxidase PPO inhibitors triazines and bromoxynil tolerant crops possessing multiple or stacked traits conferring tolerance to multiple chemistries and or multiple modes of action. The combination of a b and a complementary herbicide or salt or ester thereof can be used in combination with herbicides that are selective for the crop being treated and which complement the spectrum of weeds controlled by these compounds at the application rate employed. In some embodiments the compositions described herein and other complementary herbicides are applied at the same time either as a combination formulation or as a tank mix or as sequential applications.

The herbicidal compositions prepared disclosed herein are effective against a variety of types of undesirable vegetation. In some embodiments the compositions disclosed herein can be used for controlling broadleaf weeds grass weeds sedge weeds and combinations thereof.

In some embodiments the compositions provided herein are utilized to control undesirable vegetation in rice. In certain embodiments the undesirable vegetation is Groseb. Nash broadleaf signalgrass BRAPP L. Scop. large crabgrass DIGSA L. P. Beauv. barnyardgrass ECHCG L. LINK junglerice ECHCO Ard. Fritsch early watergrass ECHOR Vasinger Vasinger late watergrass ECHPH Salisb. saramollagrass ISCRU L. Nees Chinese sprangletop LEFCH Lam. Gray bearded sprangletop LEFFA Presl. Hitchc. Amazon sprangletop LEFPA L. Michx. Fall panicum PANDI Poir. dallisgrass PASDI L. smallflower flatsedge CYPDI L. yellow nutsedge CYPES L. rice flatsedge CYPIR L. purple nutsedge CYPRO species ELOSS L. Vahl globe fringerush FIMMI Roxb. Japanese bulrush SCPJU L. sea clubrush SCPMA L. ricefield bulrush SCPMU species jointvetch AESSS Mart. Griseb. alligatorweed ALRPH L. common waterplantain ALSPA species pigweeds and amaranths AMASS Rottb. redstem AMMCO L. Hassk. American false daisy ECLAL SW. Willd. Vahl ducksalad HETLI R. P. roundleaf mudplantain HETRE L. Jacq. ivyleaf morningglory IPOHE L. Pennell low false pimpernel LIDDU Regel Maack monochoria MOOKA Burm. F. C. Presl ex Kuhth monochoria MOOVA L. Brenan doveweed MUDNU L. Pennsylvania smartweed POLPY L. ladysthumb POLPE Michx. POLHP mild smartweed Willd. Koehne Indian toothcup ROTIN species arrowhead SAGSS Raf. Cory Rydb. Ex Hill hemp sesbania SEBEX or Gaertn. gooseweed SPDZE .

In some embodiments the methods provided herein are utilized to control undesirable vegetation in cereals. In certain embodiments the undesirable vegetation is Huds. blackgrass ALOMY L. Beauv. windgrass APESV L. wild oat AVEFA L. downy brome BROTE Lam. Italian ryegrass LOLMU Retz. littleseed canarygrass PHAMI L. annual bluegrass POAAN Poir. Roemer J. A. Schultes yellow foxtail SETLU L. Beauv. green foxtail SETVI L. Scop. Canada thistle CIRAR L. catchweed bedstraw GALAP L. Schrad. kochia KCHSC L. purple deadnettle LAMPU L. wild chamomile MATCH Less. Porter pineappleweed MATMT L. common poppy PAPRH L. wild buckwheat POLCO L. Russian thistle SASKR L. Vill. common chickweed STEME Poir. Persian speedwell VERPE Murr. field violet VIOAR or L. wild violet VIOTR .

In some embodiments the methods provided herein are utilized to control undesirable vegetation in range and pasture. In certain embodiments the undesirable vegetation is L. common ragweed AMBEL sickle pod CASOB auct. non Lam. spotted knapweed CENMA L. Scop. Canada thistle CIRAR L. field bindweed CONAR L. leafy spurge EPHES L. Torn. prickly lettuce LACSE L. buckhorn plantain PLALA L. broadleaf dock RUMOB L. prickly sida SIDSP L. wild mustard SINAR L. perennial sowthistle SONAR species goldenrod SOOSS G. H. Weber ex Wiggers dandelion TAROF L. white clover TRFRE or L. common nettle URTDI .

In some embodiments the methods provided herein are utilized to control undesirable vegetation found in row crops. In certain embodiments the undesirable vegetation is Huds. blackgrass ALOMY L. wild oat AVEFA Groseb. Nash broadleaf signalgrass BRAPP L. Scop. large crabgrass DIGSA L. P. Beauv. barnyardgrass ECHCG L. Link junglerice ECHCO Lam. Italian ryegrass LOLMU Michx. fall panicum PANDI L. wild proso millet PANMI Herrm. giant foxtail SETFA L. Beauv. green foxtail SETVI L. Pers. Johnsongrass SORHA L. Moench ssp. shattercane SORVU L. yellow nutsedge CYPES L. purple nutsedge CYPRO Medik. velvetleaf ABUTH species pigweeds and amaranths AMASS L. common ragweed AMBEL DC. Western ragweed AMBPS L. giant ragweed AMBTR L. common milkweed ASCSY L. common lambsquarters CHEAL L. Scop. Canada thistle CIRAR L. tropical spiderwort COMBE L. jimsonweed DATST L. wild carrot DAUCA L. wild poinsettia EPHHL L. hairy fleabane ERIBO L. Canadian fleabane ERICA L. common sunflower HELAN L. Griseb. smallflower morningglory IAQTA L. Jacq. ivyleaf morningglory IPOHE L. white morningglory IPOLA L. Torn. prickly lettuce LACSE L. common purslane POROL L. prickly sida SIDSP L. wild mustard SINAR Dunal eastern black nightshade SOLPT or L. common cocklebur XANST .

In some embodiments the compositions and methods provided herein are utilized to control undesirable vegetation consisting of grass broadleaf and sedge weeds. In certain embodiments the compositions and methods provided herein are utilized to control undesirable grass broadleaf and sedge vegetation including but not limited to and . In certain cases the undesirable vegetation is selected from redroot pigweed lambsquarter field pansy junglerice cleavers wild buckwheat L. pale smartweed L. ladysthumb L. black nightshade purple nutsedge species of the genus e.g. common caltrop spineless caltrop Jamaican fever plant and devil thorn weed or combinations thereof.

The compositions and methods provided herein can be used to control herbicide resistant or tolerant weeds. Exemplary resistant or tolerant weeds include but are not limited to biotypes resistant or tolerant to acetolactate synthase ALS inhibitors photosystem II inhibitors acetyl CoA carboxylase ACCase inhibitors synthetic auxins photosystem I inhibitors 5 enolpyruvylshikimate 3 phosphate EPSP synthase inhibitors microtubule assembly inhibitors lipid synthesis inhibitors protoporphyrinogen oxidase PPO inhibitors carotenoid biosynthesis inhibitors very long chain fatty acid VLCFA inhibitors phytoene desaturase PDS inhibitors glutamine synthetase inhibitors 4 hydroxyphenyl pyruvate dioxygenase HPPD inhibitors mitosis inhibitors cellulose biosynthesis inhibitors herbicides with multiple modes of action such as quinclorac and unclassified herbicides such as arylaminopropionic acids difenzoquat endothall and organoarsenicals. Exemplary resistant or tolerant weeds include but are not limited to biotypes with resistance or tolerance to multiple herbicides multiple chemical classes and multiple herbicide modes of action.

By way of non limiting illustration examples of certain embodiments of the present disclosure are given below.

Field trials were conducted with applications made in the area of naturally occurring weed populations in multiple countries. The soil or water was treated prior to the emergence of target plants. All treatments were applied using a randomized complete block trial design with 3 5 replications per treatment.

Treatments consisted of penoxsulam and acetochlor applied alone and in combination. Spray solutions were prepared using an appropriate amount of dilution to treat the area of the plots based on use rates and water volumes necessary based on a per hectare basis. Spray solutions were prepared and applied with the specified active ingredients in single and two way combinations to be able to perform Colby synergy and safening calculations. Formulated products were applied to the soil with a backpack sprayer equipped with flat fan nozzles calibrated to deliver from 200 to 300 L ha at a normal spray height above the soil at spray pressures ranging from 200 to 400 kilopascals kPa . Formulated products were applied into flooded rice paddy by calculating the area to be treated calculating the amount of active ingredient necessary to treat the area at the specified rates then mixing the treatments in water to apply 8 L ha of water to the plots.

Colby s equation was used to determine the herbicidal effects expected from the mixtures as described above. The results were measured at the evaluation intervals provided in Table 1 after the first application of the compositions. The trials exhibited unexpected synergy and those results were found statistically significant under the p value test. The herbicide tank mix combinations tested application rates and ratios employed plant species tested and results are given below.

As shown above the weed control from the treatments in these trials demonstrated synergistic weed control with higher measured weed control than would be predicted by the Colby equation.

Field trials were conducted with applications made to the soil prior to the emergence of the crops. All treatments were applied using a randomized complete block trial design with 4 replications per treatment.

Treatments consisted of penoxsulam and acetochlor applied alone or in combination. Spray solutions were prepared using an appropriate amount of dilution to treat the area of the plots based on use rates and water volumes necessary based on a per hectare basis. Spray solutions were prepared and applied with the specified active ingredients in single and two way combinations to be able to perform Colby synergy and safening calculations. Formulated products were applied to the soil with a backpack sprayer equipped with flat fan nozzles calibrated to deliver from 200 to 300 L ha at a normal spray height above the soil at spray pressures ranging from 200 to 400 kilopascals kPa . Formulated products were applied by calculating the area to be treated calculating the amount of active ingredient necessary to treat the area at the specified rates then mixing the treatments in water to apply 8 L ha of water to the crop plots. Data for sorghum SORVU and corn ZEAMX are provided in Table 2 below. The treated plots and control plots were rated blind at various intervals after application. Ratings were based on a scale of 0 100 as discussed above wherein 0 indicates no injury to the crop and 100 indicates complete control of the crop.

Colby s equation was used to determine the herbicidal effects expected from the mixtures as described above. The results were measured at the evaluation intervals provided in Table 2 after the first application of the compositions. The trials exhibited unexpected synergy and those results were found statistically significant under the p value test. The herbicide tank mix combinations tested application rates and ratios employed plant species tested and results are given below.

The compositions and methods of the appended claims are not limited in scope by the specific compositions and methods described herein which are intended as illustrations of a few aspects of the claims and any compositions and methods that are functionally equivalent are intended to fall within the scope of the claims. Various modifications of the compositions and methods in addition to those shown and described herein are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. Further while only certain representative compositions and method steps disclosed herein are specifically described other combinations of the compositions and method steps also are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims even if not specifically recited. Thus a combination of steps elements components or constituents may be explicitly mentioned herein or less however other combinations of steps elements components and constituents are included even though not explicitly stated. The term comprising and variations thereof as used herein is used synonymously with the term including and variations thereof and are open non limiting terms. Although the terms comprising and including have been used herein to describe various embodiments the terms consisting essentially of and consisting of can be used in place of comprising and including to provide for more specific embodiments of the invention and are also disclosed. Other than in the examples or where otherwise noted all numbers expressing quantities of ingredients reaction conditions and so forth used in the specification and claims are to be understood at the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims to be construed in light of the number of significant digits and ordinary rounding approaches.

