---

title: Six-membered -heterocyclic carbene-based catalysts for asymmetric reactions
abstract: The present invention provides a catalyst complex or ligand, and compositions thereof, for use in a variety of organic reactions having high reactivity and enantioselectivity. The catalyst is a N-heterocyclic carbene having three fused rings with first and second rings being six-membered rings and the third being a five-membered ring. The first ring is fused to the second and has four substituents. The second ring has two nitrogens flanking a carbene atom with one nitrogen bound to a substituent. The carbene atom may optionally be bonded to a metal. The third ring is fused to the second ring and contains two nitrogens. The third ring of the catalyst has a double bond and two substituents on adjacent non-fused carbons. A non-fused nitrogen of the third ring is partially bonded to another substituent. Methods for the synthesis and use of the catalyst embodiments of the present invention are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08975269&OS=08975269&RS=08975269
owner: Florida State University Research Foundation
number: 08975269
owner_city: Tallahassee
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140729
---
This application is a Divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 477 222 filed May 22 2012 now issued which in turn claims the benefit of and the priority from U.S. Pat. No. 8 222 265 filed Aug. 30 2010 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 238 367 filed Aug. 31 2009 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to National Science Foundation NSF Grant No. CHE 0809261.

The present invention relates to the field of asymmetrical catalysts used for transition formations in a wide variety of organic synthesis reactions.

Asymmetric catalysis is a mainstay of the pharmaceutical discovery and manufacturing process. Asymmetric catalysts are often transition metal based compounds and the ligands associated with the metal are often difficult and expensive to synthesize. There continues to be a need in the art for new and improved asymmetric catalysts that are highly active stereoselective and less expensive to synthesize.

According to a first broad aspect of the present invention a chemical compound is provided having a first second and third fused rings and the following structural formula 

According to a second broad aspect of the present invention a chemical compound is provided having a first second and third fused rings and the following structural formula 

According to a second broad aspect of the present invention a method is provided for the making synthesis of catalyst embodiments of the present invention. The 6 NHC catalyst embodiments of the present invention may be synthesized according to any method s described herein and or by any method s known in the art.

According to a third broad aspect of the present invention a method of using the compounds or compositions of the present invention are also provided according to any method known in the art and or described herein and may involve one of the following reaction types functionalization allylic substitution and hydroboration of alkynes. According to some embodiments a method is provided comprising the step of reacting a substrate in a functionalization reaction in the presence of a catalyst to produce a product wherein the substrate is a molecule having a double bond between two carbon atoms wherein one of those carbons is bonded to an electron withdrawing group EWG and the other carbon is bonded to a variable substituent or group wherein the catalyst is as described herein and wherein the product of the functionalization reaction has an enantiomeric excess of about 75 or greater. According to some embodiments the methods may further comprise the step of isolating or purifying the product of the reacting step and or measuring the product of the reacting step.

Where the definition of terms departs from the commonly used meaning of the term applicant intends to utilize the definitions provided below unless specifically indicated.

For purposes of the present invention the term asymmetric catalyst refers to a catalyst that is enantioselective and or stereoselective in terms of the products generated by an organic reaction. Such an asymmetric catalyst may be one that causes an enantiomeric excess of products of an organic reaction.

For purposes of the present invention the term stereoisomers refer to two or more molecules having the same molecular formula but differ in their three dimensional orientation of atoms.

For purposes of the present invention the term enantiomers refer to stereoisomers that are mirror images of each other in structure i.e. cannot be superimposed .

For purposes of the present invention the term chirality refers to the property of a molecule that is not superimposable in three dimensions on its mirror image. Chirality may be due to point chirality present in relation to one atom of a molecule such as a carbon atom. Point chirality at a carbon atom may exist when there are four different groups or substituents bound to the carbon atom. There may be multiple chiral atoms within a molecule.

For purposes of the present invention the terms enantioselective and enantioselectivity refer to the property of favoring one enantiomer as a product of a reaction over another. Enantioselectivity may be due at least in part to the presence of a catalyst that encourages a particular enantiomer as a product of a reaction.

For purposes of the present invention the terms enantiomeric excess ee or e.e. refer to the absolute difference between the mole fraction of each enantiomer products of a reaction. The enantiomeric excess may be expressed in terms of a fraction or percentage with the total of the mole fractions of the two enantiomer products equaling either 1.0 or 100 respectively.

For purposes of the present invention the terms N heterocyclic carbene or NHC refer to a molecule having a carbene atom present in a heterocyclic ring where at least one of the atoms flanking the carbene carbon is a nitrogen.

For purposes of the present invention the term carbene refers a carbon atom six total valence electrons where four electrons are shared to form bonds with two other neighboring atoms and where two electrons are present as a lone pair. The lone pair can exist in two states where both electrons in the lone pair are in the same orbital singlet or both electrons in the lone pair are found in different orbitals triplet .

For purposes of the present invention the term fused in reference to chemical structures and compounds refer to two or more rings that share a bond of the respective rings.

For purposes of the present invention the term substrate refers to a molecule or compound that is modified by an organic reaction such as functionalization allylic substitution or hydroboration of alkynes in the presence of a catalyst of the present invention.

For purposes of the present invention the term catalyst may refer to a substance molecule or compound that increases the rate of a reaction. According to some embodiments the catalyst may include a 6 NHC metal complex or ligand which may also increase the yield per time and or the enantioselectivity of the reaction.

N heterocyclic carbenes NHC are an important chemical class showing excellent properties when used as components of or directly as catalysts. NHC Metal complexes are generally outstanding catalysts for a wide range of organic transition formations. The majority of active NHC complexes are comprised of structures where the carbene resides on a five membered ring 5 NHC . Non five membered ring systems are rare. Only a few examples exist where ligands based on seven membered rings have exhibited promising activity compared to other ligand classes. Beyond five and seven membered rings the literature is even sparser. Few six membered ring NHCs 6 NHCs are known. Of this small subset of 6 NHCs only a few transition metal catalysts have been prepared and none are asymmetric catalysts although they show improved properties over 5 NHCs. See e.g. Binobaid A. et al. . pp. 7099 2009 Tu T. et al. 351 1029 2009 and Mayr M. et al. 10 1256 2004 the entire contents and disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference. Despite the fact that 6 NHCs have yet to produce a wide range of catalysts these NHCs offer unique structural features including unique electronic and steric properties and the potential for greater modularity stemming from the extra carbon atom. See e.g. Kolychev E. L. et al. 694 2454 2009 Cesar V. et al. 130 11286 2008 Lloyd Jones G. C. et al. . 12 5361 2006 Prasang C. et al. 127 10182 2005 Lavallo V. et al. 44 5705 2005 and Bazinet P. et al. 125 13314 2003 the entire contents and disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Surprisingly in contrast to organocatalytic carbenes no fused tricyclic NHC metal catalysts with rigid chiral groups have exhibited high enantioselectivity. See e.g. He M. et al. 130 418 2008 Enders D. et al. 107 5606 2007 Marion N. et al. 46 2988 2007 Reynolds N. T. Rovis T. 127 16406 Scarborough C. C. et al. 65 5084 2009 biphenyl core Scarborough C. C. et al. 2284 2009 biphenyl core Metallinos C. et al. 28 1233 2009 phenanthroline core Seo H. et al. 73 1983 2008 biisoquinoline core Baskakov D. et al. 26 626 2007 biisoquinoline core Cavell K. J. et al. 4922 2006 biisoquinoline core Glorius F. et al. 2704 2002 oxazoline core the entire contents and disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. Recognizing the strengths of both 6 NHCs and annulated NHCs we have discovered and designed a new 6 NHC ligand and ligand metal catalyst that is relatively easy to prepare and shows excellent activity and enantioselectivity.

According to a first broad aspect of the present invention a 6 NHC catalyst compound and any compositions comprising a 6 NHC catalyst compound are provided. Compositions of the present invention may include for example a reaction mixture or solution comprising the 6 NHC catalyst compound of the present invention as described herein. According to embodiments of the present invention a compound is provided as shown in having at least three fused rings with two of the rings being six membered rings and the third being a five membered ring. The first ring of the catalyst is a benzene ring having four substituents R R bound to the carbons of the first ring that are not fused to a second ring. A second middle ring of the catalyst is a six membered ring having two nitrogens directly flanking a carbene atom and fused to the first ring. In addition a substituent R may be bound to the nitrogen of the second ring of the catalyst that is not fused to any other ring. Finally a third five membered ring of the catalyst is fused to the second ring. The third ring of the catalyst contains two nitrogens with one of the nitrogens shared or fused with the second ring and the other nitrogen adjacent to the carbon fused to the second ring. In addition the third ring has a double bond between the fused carbon and the non fused nitrogen. The third ring also has two substituents each R on the adjacent non fused carbon atoms of the third ring arranged either in cis or in trans relative to the third ring. According to some embodiments the non fused nitrogen atom of the third ring of the catalyst may also be associated with or partially bonded to another substituent Y .

According to these embodiments the Rthrough Rsubstituents or groups bound to the first ring of the catalyst may each be any one of the following alkyl vinyl allyl alkynyl aryl alkoxy amino carbonyl carbamoyl proteo deutero halo hydroxyl thioether thiocarbonyl urea or thiourea. Furthermore each of the Rand Rsubstituents or groups bound to the third and second rings of the catalyst respectively may be any one of the following alkyl vinyl allyl alkynyl or aryl. As stated above the Y substituent of the catalyst may associate with or be partially bonded to the non fused nitrogen atom of the third ring. The Y substituent may be either a lone pair of electrons or any coordinating Lewis acid such as any alkali or alkaline earth metal cations any transition metal ions or electron poor main group elements such as boron or aluminum containing compounds. According to embodiments of the present invention the two adjacent carbon atoms of the third ring of the catalyst that are not fused to the second ring may each have point chirality with one Rsubstituent above and the other below the third ring. The Rsubstituent may have a steric effect hindrance and or blockade when compounds of the present invention are used as a catalyst. According to some embodiments the carbene atom of the catalyst may be bonded to a metal M . Alternatively however the 6 NHC catalyst of the present invention may instead exist as a ligand having two unbound free valence electrons in either a spin paired singlet or a non spin paired triplet arrangement See . If the carbene atom of the 6 NHC catalyst of the present invention is bound to a metal M then such a metal may generally include any transition metal i.e. any metal in the d block or Groups 3 12 of the periodic table or main group metal i.e. any metal in Groups 1 and 2 or 13 16 of the periodic table . In addition such a metal M may also include any compound or salt of such metals such as copper I chloride CuCl or any other metal in a non zero oxidation state.

According to a second broad aspect of the present invention methods are provided for the making synthesis of a catalyst embodiment s of the present invention. According to some embodiments the 6 NHC catalyst complexes or ligands of the present invention may be synthesized or made according to any method s described herein and or by using any method s known in the art.

According to a third broad aspect of the present invention methods of using the compounds or compositions of the present invention are also provided according to any method known in the art and or described herein. The 6 NHC catalyst of the present invention may be used in a variety of chemical reactions for industrial and pharmaceutical applications due especially to its high activity and enantioselectivity as a catalyst in these reactions for transforming various substrate compounds. These reactions may be used for example to produce or synthesize a precursor or intermediate of a final end product. The catalyst of the present invention may be used for example in three different types of reactions functionalization allylic substitution and hydroboration of alkynes. Indeed reactivity has been demonstrated in many cases for these types of reactions.

According to embodiments of the present invention the 6 NHC complexes or ligands of the present invention may be used as a catalyst in various organic reactions. According to these method of use embodiments an appropriate substrate for the particular reaction type e.g. functionalization allylic substitution or hydroboration of alkynes may be combined mixed reacted etc. with one or more of the following a diboron containing compound a boron silicon containing compound or a phosphorous silicon containing compound as described herein and a 6 NHC catalyst or ligand embodiment of the present invention. The reaction temperature reaction time substrate concentration and or catalyst concentration or Mol including any combination thereof may be adjusted or controlled as described herein. The product s of such reactions may optionally be isolated purified etc. in a second step according to standard techniques and procedures such as for use in a subsequent reaction. Isolation or purification may refer to increasing the purity and or concentration of the product s . The product s of such reactions may also be optionally measured or detected in a second step according to any standard technique including NMR spectroscopy chromatography etc. The product s of such reactions may also have certain characteristics or properties such as a particular yield and or a particular range of steroselectivity or enantiomeric excess such as described herein.

According to some embodiments the catalyst of the present invention may be used in a functionalization reaction such as a borylation silylation or phosphorylation reaction. These reactions may be used for example to produce or synthesize a precursor or intermediate of a final end product. In the following examples of reactions utilizing the catalyst of the present invention the attachment of the boron containing phosphorous containing or silicon containing molecules to the substrate in the reaction product may be removed in a subsequent reaction such as under oxidative conditions.

According to those embodiments in which the catalyst is used in a borylation reaction the substrate of the reaction may generally include molecules having an acyclic or cyclic exocyclic or endocyclic double bond between two carbon atoms with one of those carbons bonded to an electron withdrawing group EWG and the other carbon bonded to another substituent or group R not to be confused with Rof the catalyst . The Rsubstituent of the substrate may generally be any group where the atom directly attached to the double bond is a carbon such as any alkyl group aryl group etc. and the EWG of the substrate may generally include one of the following ester carboxylic acid acid halide amide sulfone nitro nitrile thioester or thioamide.

According to these embodiments as shown in the borylation reaction may proceed in the presence of the catalyst by bonding of a boron atom of a diboron containing compound such as Bis pinacolato diboron Bis catecholato diboron or any compound containing a boron boron bond to one of the two doubly bonded carbons and eliminating the double bond between the carbon atoms. The borylation reaction mixture may contain a solvent and a base. The amount of the catalyst of the present invention in the borylation reaction may have a Mol in a range of about 0.01 to about 10.0 or alternatively in a range of about 0.1 to about 10.0. Mole percent or Mol moles of catalyst moles of starting material. The amount of the catalyst of the present invention in the borylation reaction may depend on the amount of substrate in the reaction. The solvent for the borylation reaction may range from a non polar solvent for example one or more of the following diethyl ether toluene THF or CHCl to polar aprotic solvents for example CHCN DMF or DMSO and the base may be an alkoxide base such as sodium t butoxide NaOtBu or nitrogenous base such as lithium hexamethyldisilazide. The borylation reaction may be carried out at colder temperatures such as in a range from about 55 C. to about 0 C. or alternatively in a range from about 30 C. to about 0 C. or alternatively in a range from about 55 C. to about 30 C. According to some embodiments the temperature of the borylation reaction may be about 0 C. or greater.

According to some embodiments the borylation reaction in the presence of the catalyst may have an enantiomeric excess ee or selectivity of product of about 75 or greater 80 or greater 85 or greater or 90 or greater. In addition the borylation reaction may be allowed to proceed long enough to allow near 100 yield such as greater than 98 or 99 yield. The reaction time for reaching near 100 yield may vary depending on the amount of substrate and or catalyst as well as temperature from for example about less than 1 minute to about 3 minutes or alternatively to about 80 minutes or alternatively to about 3 hours or alternatively to about 6 hours or any range therein. Generally more time is required at lower temperatures and or higher substrate concentrations but the lower temperatures may allow for greater enantioselectivity.

According to those embodiments in which the catalyst is used in a silylation reaction the substrate of the reaction may generally be the same kinds of molecules described above for the borylation reaction. According to these embodiments as shown in the silylation reaction may proceed in the presence of the catalyst by bonding of a silicon atom of a boron silicon containing compound such as 2 Dimethylphenylsilyl 1 3 2 benzodioxaborole Dimethylphenylsilyl boronic acid pinacol ester etc. to one of the two doubly bonded carbons and eliminating the double bond between the carbon atoms. According to these embodiments the silicon of the boron silicon containing compound may be bonded to three substituents R not to be confused with Rof the catalyst . The Rsubstituent of the boron silicon containing compound may be an alkyl or aryl group. The silylation reaction mixture may contain a solvent and a base as described above for the borylation reaction. According to these embodiments the Mol of the catalyst the temperature ranges reaction times enantiomeric excess ee and yield may be about the same for the silylation reaction as described above for the borylation reaction.

According to those embodiments in which the catalyst is used in a phosphorylation reaction the substrate of the reaction may generally be the same kinds of molecules described above for the borylation reaction. According to these embodiments as shown in the phosphorylation reaction may proceed in the presence of the catalyst by bonding of a phosphorous atom of a phosphorous silicon containing compound such as Diphenylphosphino trimethylsilane Diethyl trimethylsilylphosphate etc. to one of the two doubly bonded carbons and eliminating the double bond between the carbon atoms. According to these embodiments the phosphorous of the phosphorous silicon containing compound may be bonded to three substituents R not to be confused with Rof the catalyst . The Rsubstituent of the phosphorous silicon containing compound may be an alkyl aryl or alkyoxy group. The phosphorylation reaction mixture may contain a solvent and a base as described above for the borylation reaction. According to these embodiments the Mol of the catalyst the temperature ranges reaction times enantiomeric excess ee and yield may be about the same for the phosphorylation reaction as described above for the borylation reaction.

According to those embodiments in which the catalyst is used in an allylic substitution reaction the substrate of the reaction may generally include molecules having an acyclic or cyclic exocyclic or endocyclic double bond between a first carbon atom and a second carbon atom with the first carbon bonded to a first substituent or group R not to be confused with Rof the catalyst and the second carbon bonded to a third carbon which is bonded to a second substituent or group R not to be confused with Rof the catalyst . The Rsubstituent of the substrate may generally be any group where the atom directly attached to the double bond is a carbon such as any alkyl group aryl group etc. and the Rsubstituent of the substrate may generally be any carbonate or aryloxy group. According to these embodiments as shown in the allylic substitution reaction may proceed in the presence of the catalyst by bonding of a boron atom of a diboron containing compound such as Bis pinacolato diboron Bis catecholato diboron or any compound containing a boron boron bond to the first carbon and relocating the double bond between the first and second carbons to between the second and third carbons. Such relocation of the double bond may proceed via a sigma bond metathesis. The Rsubstituent behaves as a leaving group in the reaction. The allylic substitution reaction mixture may contain a solvent and a base similarly as described above.

According to those embodiments in which the catalyst is used in a reaction for the hydroboration of alkynes the substrate of the reaction may generally include molecules having a triple bond between a first carbon atom and a second carbon atom with the first carbon bonded to a first substituent or group R not to be confused with Rof the catalyst and the second carbon bonded to a third carbon which is bonded to a second substituent or group R not to be confused with Rof the catalyst and a third substituent or group R not to be confused with Rof the catalyst . The Rsubstituent of the substrate may generally be any group where the atom directly attached to the double bond is a carbon such as any alkyl group aryl group etc. the Rsubstituent of the substrate may generally be any alkyl aryl carbonate siloxy proteo ester or aryloxy group and the Rsubstituent of the substrate may generally be any group where the atom directly attached to the double bond is a carbon such as any alkyl group aryl group etc. According to these embodiments as shown in the hydroboration of alkynes reaction may proceed in the presence of the catalyst by bonding of a boron atom of a diboron containing compound such as Bis pinacolato diboron Bis catecholato diboron or any compound containing a boron boron bond to the first carbon and converting the triple bond into a double bond between the first and second carbons. The hydroboration of alkynes reaction mixture may contain a solvent and a base similarly as described above.

Having described many embodiments of the present invention in detail it will be apparent that modifications and variations are possible without departing from the scope of the invention defined in the appended claims. Furthermore it should be appreciated that all examples in the present disclosure while illustrating many embodiments of the invention are provided as non limiting examples and are therefore not to be taken as limiting the various aspects so illustrated.

The formation of a copper I complex of a 6 NHC ligand according to embodiments of the present invention and its use in performing asymmetric hydroborations is described. A 6 NHC complex embodiment of the present invention B may be prepared in situ or as an isolated complex according to at least two methods. As shown in the in situ approach may be carried out by dissolving a carbene precursor A in benzene followed by the addition two equivalents of lithium hexamethyldisilazide LiHMDS with simultaneous addition of copper I chloride. This solution may turn from transparent to deep yellow. In this example a crude NMR spectra has been shown to exhibit peaks characteristic of previously observed NHC metal complexes. According to the isolating approach for forming a catalyst complex embodiment of the present invention D in the carbene precursor A may be treated with sodium t butoxide in THF to generate the addition products B and C followed by immediate addition of CuCl. Higher yields may be obtained when the solvent is exchanged to CHCl. The adduct may be cleanly changed to NHC CuCl complex in about 12 hours through NMR experiment.

A 6 NHC metal complex catalyst embodiment of the present invention may be prepared as shown in . Fluoroimidazoline may be synthesized via a known method and a mesityl group may be installed using nucleophilic aromatic substitution in 99 yield. See e.g. Busacca C. A. et al. 10 341 2008 and Davis E. M. et al. 9 843 2005 the entire contents and disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference. Subsequent annulation using NHBF triethyl orthoformate may then produce a carbene precursor in 95 yield. Catalyst synthesis may conclude with addition of KOtBu and CuCl to yield a bench top stable catalyst embodiment of the present invention 1 in 98 yield.

See for the series of reactions for this synthesis example. The synthesis of each intermediate and final 6 NHC catalyst product is described below.

Fluoroimidate 7 and Fluoroimidazoline 8 were synthesized according to the literature. See e.g. Busacca C. A. et al. 2008 supra.

Fluoroimidazoline 8 1.13 g 3.57 mmol and trimethylaniline 552 l 3.93 mmol were dissolved in THF 20 mL . After the addition of LiNH 205 mg 8.93 mmol the mixture was heated to 80 C. The color of the reaction mixture changed to brown and ammonia gas evolved. The reaction mixture was stirred overnight. The reaction mixture was cooled to rt and quenched with sat. NHCl solution and extracted with EtOAc and the combined organic layer was dried with NaSO. The crude product was purified by short path column chromatography Hexane EtOAc 20 1 to give the desired product 9 1.53 g 3.54 mmol as a brownish foam in 99 yield. R 0.29 Hexane EtOAc 20 1 

Aminoimidazoline 9 810 mg 1.88 mmol and NHBF 237 mg 2.26 mmol were added to the triethyl orthoformate 10 mL and the mixture was heated to 120 C. After 1 h white solid formed. The reaction mixture was stirred for an additional 4 h. After cooling to rt EtO was added. The slurry was filtered yielding 815 mg of solid was obtained. 180 mg of solid was obtained after the filtrate was reflux to remove EtO and stirred at 50 C. overnight. The combined solid was stirred in the presence of HO and EtOAc. After phase separation water layer was extracted again with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were dried with NaSOand evaporated under reduced pressure. Pure product 10 942 mg 1.78 mmol was obtained by recrystallization under EtOAc as a white solid in 95 yield.

Imidazoquinazolium salt 10 100 mg 0.189 mmol and CuCl 21.0 mg 0.212 mmol were charged into a schlenk flask and placed under high vacuum for 1 h. Anhydrous THF was added to the mixture at 0 C. KOtBu solution in THF 212 l 0.212 mmol 1M solution in THF was added to the mixture dropwise. During the addition of KOtBu a blue color appeared and immediately disappeared. After complete addition of KOtBu solution the blue color maintained for ten seconds and then changed to light brown. After 10 min THF was carefully removed under vacuum and CHClwas added to the reaction mixture. The reaction mixture was stirred for 18 h. The reaction mixture was filtered through Celite and washed with CHCl. The filtrate was reduced under high vacuum. The crude product was used for asymmetric reactions without further purification. For analytically pure samples the crude product was purified by flash column chromatography on silica gel CHClto CHCl EtOAc 100 1 to give the desired copper chloride complex 1 100 mg 0.185 mmol as a yellow solid in 98 yield. Rf 0.20 CHCl EtOAc 100 1 

Addition of boron across double bonds is a useful methodology that may be accomplished using a variety of metal catalysts. The conjugate addition of boron to electron poor alkenes borylation provides access to highly functionalized intermediates useful in the construction of complex products. In general copper based catalysts yield faster reactions under milder conditions and with greater selectivity compared to other transition metals. See e.g. Lawson Y. G. et al. 2051 1997 Pt catalyzed reactions Ali H. A. et al. 20 3962 2001 Bell N. J. et al. 1854 2004 Kabalka G. W. et al. 43 2323 2002 Rh catalyzed reactions Hirano K. et al. 9 5031 2007 Ni catalyzed reactions Ito H. et al. 41 6821 2000 Takahashi K. et al. 625 47 2001 Mun S. et al. 8 4887 2006 Lee J. E. et al. 733 2008 Lee J. E. et al. 47 145 2008 Lillo V. et al. 28 659 2009 Sim H. S. et al. 15 1939 2009 Fleming W. J. et al. 7 2520 2009 Schiffner J. A. et al. 49 1194 2010 and Chen I. H. Et al. 131 11664 2009 the entire contents and disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The process of copper based catalysis in borylation reactions may be proposed to result from an in situ formed Cu B species formed by exchange of a copper ligand with one borane from a diborane compound. It is speculated that the active catalyst is a Cu B species formed by exchanging a copper alkoxide with bis pinacolato diboron. See e.g. Laitar D. S. et al. 127 17196 17197 2005 Dang L. et al. 3987 2009 Lillo V. et al. 2899 2009 and Dang L. et al. 27 4443 2008 the entire contents and disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference. The copper bound boron then acts as a nucleophile reacting alkenes. Recently asymmetric versions have been reported. It has been shown that commercially available bidentate phosphine ligands may provide a copper complex capable of catalyzing asymmetric hydroborations to unsaturated amides and esters with high yield and enantiomeric excess. See e.g. Lee J. E. et al. 2008 supra. It was demonstrated that R S josiphos copper I complexes catalyze asymmetric borylations to unsaturated nitriles amides and esters with high yield and enantiomeric excess ee . It has also been shown that five membered ring NHC based ligands may demonstrate excellent selectivities when they are used in hydroborating aryl functionalized alkenes. See e.g. Lee K. S. et al. 2009 supra. A NHC copper complex to hydroborylate styrenic alkenes with high yield and selectivity was used and a method requiring only a NHC ligand to catalyze borylations was demonstrated. See e.g. Lee Y. et al. 131 3160 2009 and Lee K. S. Et al. 131 7253 2009 the entire contents and disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference. It has also been shown that NHC ligands may be used to catalyze hydroboration of substrates similarly to Yun et al. but with lower selectivity. See e.g. Lillo V. et al. 2009 supra. Copper N hetereocyclic carbene NHC complexes were used to catalyze similar reactions but with poorer selectivity.

The catalyst of the present invention is shown to be a highly active and enantioselective 6 NHC catalyst. Thus far however no reports of carbene copper complexes are known to demonstrate high yield and enantioselectivity for borylation. Exploratory studies using a model borylation reaction in Natmosphere were performed to assess optimal solvent and temperature conditions for a catalyst complex embodiment of the present invention See complex 1 in or to yield borylated products in high yield and enantioselectivity See Table in . These results reveal that this catalyst complex is highly active and provides complete consumption of starting materials within about 1 min at 0 C. with about 1 mol of catalyst in diethyl ether to give 78 ee of the desired product See entry 1 . Further temperature screenings revealed that 86 ee could be realized at 55 C. with maintenance of useful reaction rate See entries 2 3 . Non polar solvents such as diethyl ether and toluene were identified as optimal solvents for the borylation reaction. Diethyl ether was selected for further experiments because of its easier removal.

In this example unsaturated ester 0.20 mmol and bis pinacolato diboron 56 mg 0.22 mmol were dissolved in EtO or toluene 1 mL . NaOtBu 6 mg 0.060 mmol was added to the reaction mixture. And then the reaction mixture was cooled to resulting temperature and MeOH 18 L 0.4 mmol was added. After 5 min 6 NHC copper catalyst 1.1 mg 0.0020 mmol or 3.3 mg 0.0060 mmol was added. After complete consumption of unsaturated ester the reaction mixture was filtered through silica gel and washed with EtO. The filtrate was concentrated under rotary evaporator. The resulting residue was purified by column chromatography Hexane EtOAc 20 1 to afford the desired products. It was found that the order of addition was critical to achieve high yields and ee s reproducibly.

For the determination of enantioselectivity the resulting boronate was dissolved in EtOAc 2 mL and oxidized by treatment of HO 5 eq and 1M NaOH solution 5 eq for 30 min. After phase separation the organic layer was evaporated under high vacuum. The crude alcohol product was purified by column chromatography.

With optimized conditions established for the model reaction the borylation in Natmosphere of a variety of other substrates in the presence of a 6 NHC catalyst complex was investigated See . The catalyst complex embodiment of the present invention demonstrated success at transforming a variety of aliphatic and aromatic unsaturated esters to borylated products in high yield and enantioselectivity See Table in . Linear aliphatic substrates such as ethyl hexenoate and ethyl octenoate had high enantioselectivities 90 and 91 respectively entries 2 and 3 Increased branching was also well tolerated entries 4 6 . Interestingly methyl cinnamate gave the highest ee 87 ee among the methyl ethyl and isobutyl esters of cinnamic acid which is opposite to the aliphatic esters entries 1 7 . We were surprised to find that the o methyl substituted cinnamate esters showed selectivity similar to the aliphatic esters with the isobutyl ester giving higher ee 96 than ethyl ester 92 entry 9 .

To better quantify the activity of catalyst complex embodiment we reduced the catalyst loading for the reaction as shown in the Table in . Even at about 0.01 mol of the catalyst complex the reaction proceeded in high yield and high enantioselectivity and still took place within about 100 min See entry 5 . Though NHC catalysts are known to provide very high turnover numbers TONs an asymmetric case with the activity presented in the Table in is unfamiliar. See e.g. Mayr et al. supra.

In the example summarized in catalyst loading experiments were set up using standard reaction conditions except the concentration of the reaction mixture and the catalyst loading were varied as illustrated in the table above. Reaction progress was monitored by GC chromatography and complete consumption of the starting material in the times are indicated in . We confirmed there was less than 1 of starting material by examining product C satellites in relationship to residual starting material peaks no starting material peaks were observed in the reaction mixture by H NMR. Based on this information we concluded that the conversion is 99 .

DFT calculations have provided insight for the mechanistic model shown in . See e.g. Dang et al. supra. It is proposed that the unsaturated ester could approach the Cu B complex from four different orientations as shown in . The bottom approach is blocked by the imidazoline s phenyl group TS 3 and the mesityl group TS 4 . In the top approach TS 1 is free from steric repulsion whereas TS 2 forces the substrate ester and mesityl group to collide. In summary we have developed a new six membered annulated NHC copper complex that catalyzes borylations with high yield and enantioselectivity. The catalyst is very active showing 10 000 turnovers at 0.01 mol of catalyst without significant decrease of enantioselectivity and with useful reaction rates. Further studies concerning the mechanism and the expansion of reaction scope may be undertaken.

The enantioselectivity of the a catalyst embodiment of the present invention See complex 1 in in a 3 borylation reaction is compared to other catalysts See 2 3 in . The results including the ratio of 5a 5b with these catalyst comparisons are summarized in the table in .

We tried to reproduce the borylation reaction of ethyl cinnamate using another group s reaction conditions. See e.g. Mun S. et al. 2006 supra. The same results were observed as reported. However when ethyl 4 hydroxy cinnamate was tested there was a significantly lower yield. It is proposed that the aromatic hydroxyl group disrupts the active catalytic species. See table in .

The enantioselectivity of the a catalyst embodiment of the present invention See complex 1 in in a allylic substitution reaction is compared to other catalysts See 2 3 in . The results including the ratio of 6a 6b with these catalyst comparisons are summarized in the table in . Linear product 6b was synthesized and confirmed by comparison with known data. See e.g. Godeau J. et al. 54 5116 2009 the entire contents and disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference. Peaks of 6b in GC chromatogram in these examples for 1 or 2 catalyzed allylic substitution reaction were not observed.

While the present invention has been disclosed with references to certain embodiments numerous modification alterations and changes to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the sphere and scope of the present invention as defined in the appended claims. Accordingly it is intended that the present invention not be limited to the described embodiments but that it has the full scope defined by the language of the following claims and equivalents thereof.

