---

title: Integrated real estate showing scheduling and key management system
abstract: A system and method for dispensing a key from a key kiosk disposed at a realtor's office near a real property based on a showing appointment scheduled with a showing scheduling system. The appointment, including a date and time, as well as an authorized user is communicated from the showing scheduling system to the key kiosk. The user then authenticates herself or himself to the kiosk at the appropriate time, and the key is dispensed. The kiosk authenticates the user by scanning a QR code or using the physical location of the user. The kiosk will not dispense the key if the user has a different key that is checked out, but not returned yet. The key can be returned to the kiosk where it is dispensed, or a different key kiosk. The kiosk also dispenses a single common key when the user shows multiple properties.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09460480&OS=09460480&RS=09460480
owner: ShowingTime.com, Inc.
number: 09460480
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140429
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 757 142 entitled INTEGRATED REAL ESTATE SHOWING SCHEDULING AND KEY DISPENSING SYSTEM filed Apr. 9 2010 assigned to ShowingTime.com Inc. of Chicago Ill. and which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety and which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 039 544 entitled SHOWING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM TO AUTOMATICALLY MATCH AND CONTROL ELECTRONIC LOCKBOXES filed Feb. 28 2008 assigned to ShowingTime.com Inc. of Chicago Ill. and which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This application is related to U.S. Pat. No. 6 973 432 filed Nov. 20 2000 assigned to ShowingTime.com Inc. of Chicago Ill. and which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. This application is also related to U.S. Pat. No. 8 145 352 filed Sep. 8 2011 assigned to ShowingTime.com Inc. of Chicago Ill. and which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates generally to systems controlling access to property such as real estate and is particularly directed to a showing management system integrated into a key dispensing kiosk for use in high density real estate such as for example a condominium town home or apartment complex.

Paramount in the real estate business is the need to show properties for sale to potential buyers. This requires the buyer and the buyer s agent showing agent to access the seller s property usually when the seller is absent. Traditionally real estate agents have used lockboxes to store the keys to the seller s property for retrieval by showing agents. These lockboxes have long been purely mechanical requiring an access combination a special key or both to be unlocked. However to address and improve privacy safety and efficiency the real estate industry has begun to use electronic real estate lock box systems to manage the access to seller s properties. The main components of these lockbox systems are an electronic lockbox an electronic key device to open the electronic lockbox and a supervisory central computer system database.

The functionality of a prior art electronic lockbox system see can be briefly summarized as follows. The buyer s agent showing agent carries an electronic key device which can be a PDA a cell phone or a custom device adapted to wirelessly communicate with the electronic lockbox and the central computer system database . In order to physically remove the property key locked inside the electronic lockbox the lockbox requires the input of a unique access code in order to be unlocked. The access code may be generated by the central computer system and is transmitted to the electronic key device . The electronic key device will then transmit the received unique access code to the electronic lockbox . Alternatively the electronic key device will present the access code to the showing agent who must then manually input the access code into the electronic lockbox . The electronic lockbox will then compare the received access code to an internally generated access code and if the codes match access will be allowed.

The data describing the lockbox access is stored in the electronic key device the electronic lockbox or both. The electronic key device is further capable of transmitting certain access data to the central computer system database for further processing. Access data may include identifications of the electronic key device and the key device holder e.g. the Showing Agent ID access date and time property identification Listing ID etc. The ability to track store and centrally process these access data are a valuable tool for the real estate industry. Knowing when and who has actually accessed a listed property not only addresses safety concerns but also provides sellers and agents with valuable information about the interest in the property listing. For example the stored access data makes it easier to contact the showing agent after a showing to collect feedback on how the property was perceived by the potential buyer.

However in order to accurately process the access data collected from electronic lockboxes and or electronic keys a central processing system needs reliable data pertaining to which specific electronic lockbox is assigned to which specific property listing. Electronic lockboxes are inherently mobile i.e. they are moved from one property listing to the next when a specific property no longer is available for showing appointments. There is no preset or pre configured association between a lockbox and a particular property listing. The prior art attempts to establish at least a temporary association between the lockbox and the property listing by requiring the seller s agent listing agent or listing office personnel to enter both the Lockbox ID usually a serial number or some other form of unique Lockbox ID and the unique property listing code. Of course the reliance on manual data input introduces the possibility of human error or simply neglect. Manually entering all of the required data also takes time. Yet a database with missing data cannot be efficiently and correctly mined for data.

U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 989 732 and 7 009 489 hereby incorporated by reference teach electronic lockbox systems including date and time access control mechanisms to prevent showing agents even with valid key devices from gaining access to a lockbox i.e. a property at any time. Those systems enable users to individually allow or deny access to an electronic lockbox at specified times. These predetermined access time windows are stored inside the electronic lockbox and in the central computer system database. When the showing agent enters a unique access code into the electronic lockbox the lockbox compares the current time with the predetermined access time data for the particular lockbox. If the showing agent attempts to access the lockbox at a time that is outside of the predetermined access time window access is denied.

United States Publication Number 2003 0179075 hereby incorporated by reference teaches an alternative system of time based access control. Instead of conditioning the authorized access to the electronic lockbox on a positive match of the current access time and a predetermined access time window these systems generate an access code that is unique for the predetermined date and time of access and or the person seeking access. That unique access code is only valid for the authorized user during the predetermined access time which may include a grace period for attempting to access the lockbox a little early or a little later than the beginning of the predetermined showing time. The time based access code is provided to the authorized showing agent by the central computer system. In order to unlock the electronic lockbox the showing agent must manually enter a unique agent ID as well as the time based access code into the electronic lockbox.

In addition to the central computer system database managing the electronic lockboxes and electronic key devices so called showing management systems are also used in the real estate industry. A showing management system allows showing agents to make showing appointments for selected property listings. These showing managements systems such as ShowingTime s ShowingDesk software see U.S. Pat. No. 6 973 432 hereby incorporated by reference typically integrate with or connect to one or more listing services to update its database of property listings. Showing agents can make showing appointments by directly accessing the showing management system through an access device such as a personal computer as depicted in . The access device is connected to the showing management system through either a wired or a wireless communications network. The showing management system provides the showing agent with real time access to all available property listings of the associated listing service. The showing agent can see the status of each property listing and available showing times making it very convenient to schedule a showing appointment. The scheduled appointment is stored real time in the showing management system s database and is immediately visible to other showing agents accessing the showing management system. The information that is stored in the showing management system s database may include but is not limited to Listing ID Showing Agent ID and showing appointment start end date and time.

Lockboxes provide a convenient way to enable access by a realtor to a single real estate property that is for sale. However traditional lockboxes and electronic lockboxes are inefficient for use with dense configured real property such as high rise buildings condominium complexes town home complexes apartment buildings and other high density real estate configurations. Key kiosks which may hold hundreds of keys are used to facilitate showings at such real properties. To retrieve a key from a key kiosk a user generally must know an access code or have access to a device such as a mechanical or electronic key as well as an identifier for the individual real property unit that she wishes to access. For example a user may retrieve a key corresponding to condominium unit by using a password which may be unique to the user as well as the unit number.

While key kiosks provide a convenient and cost effective way to provide access to realtors and others desiring to show or view a real property present key kiosks have a number of shortcomings. One issue is that presently available key kiosks provide keys to those with the correct pass code irrespective of the time that the key is requested i.e. even though a showing is scheduled for 1 PM a key kiosk will provide a key to a party with the correct pass code at 12 PM or 2 PM even though another party may have scheduled a showing at that time. Furthermore since there is no integration with showing scheduling systems presently available key kiosks cannot provide reminders to those who have neglected or intentionally failed to return keys which will inconvenience all those coming later.

Accordingly it is an object of this invention to provide a system and method for automatically controlling access to a key kiosk utilizing showing appointment data communicated from a showing scheduling system.

It is yet another object of this invention to provide a system and method to track those responsible for keys checked out from a key kiosk.

Another object of this disclosure is to provide a system and method for refusing to dispense a key from a key kiosk for a showing agent when she fails to return a checked out key.

Another object of this disclosure is to provide a system and method for generating reports of key available statuses of key kiosks.

Another object of this disclosure is to provide a system and method allowing a key to be returned to a different key kiosk from the key kiosk from which the key is retrieved.

Another object of this disclosure is to provide a system and method for dispensing a key from a key kiosk for a showing agent by scanning a QR code.

Another object of this disclosure is to provide a system and method for dispensing a key from a key kiosk for a showing agent when the showing agent is nearby the key kiosk.

Another object of this disclosure is to provide a system and method for displaying a list of nearby key kiosks for a showing agent based on the physical location of the showing agent.

Another object of this disclosure is to provide a system and method for generating a showing tour including one or more stops at key kiosks.

Another object of this disclosure is to provide a system and method for dispensing a single common key from a key kiosk for a showing agent when the showing agent is showing multiple properties requiring the common key.

Another object of this disclosure is to provide a system and method for managing key transfer between showing agents.

Accordingly it is an advantage of the present invention to enable automatic dispensing of keys from a key kiosk based on the time that an appointment is scheduled for a showing. In one embodiment the present invention is disclosed as a method of dispensing a key from a key kiosk disposed on or near a real property the method comprising the steps of scheduling an appointment for showing a real property using a showing scheduling system. An appointment for a showing is scheduled by a user such as for example a buyer s agent a seller s agent or a buyer interested in the property. The appointment includes a date time and an identifier for an authorized user. The identifier can be for example a unique code assigned to a person although other forms of identification may be used as well such as for example biometric identifiers i.e. a retinal pattern or a fingerprint all of which are referred to herein under the general term user identifier. The appointment is then communicated to the key kiosk. This communication is conducted through a communication device such as for example a network port wireless network port digital radio or a paper message directed to a person that has the responsibility of manually entering information into the key kiosk. A user then enters identifies herself to the key kiosk which validates the user and dispenses the key. Of course if the user was not validated no key would be dispensed.

Further embodiments of the disclosed key dispensing method communicate from the key kiosk to the showing scheduling system the status of the key as dispensed after dispensing the key and available after the key has been returned. Additionally the appointment can be expanded to include an end time and the user can be notified if the key is not timely returned i.e. returned by the end time or some period thereafter.

In a further embodiment the present invention is disclosed as a system for dispensing a key from a key kiosk disposed on or near a real property the system comprising a key kiosk for dispensing keys the key kiosk disposed on or near a rear property and including a communications device. The system further comprises a showing scheduling system for scheduling real property showings the showing scheduling system further including a second communications device in communication with the key kiosk and wherein the showing scheduling system communicates an appointment to the key kiosk and the key kiosk dispenses a key after validating a user.

Further embodiments of the disclosed key dispensing system communicate the status of the key as dispensed and available from the key kiosk to the showing scheduling system based on whether or not the key has been checked out or returned and provide notifications to users that have not timely returned keys.

Further in accordance with the present teachings is a method for dispensing a key from a key kiosk. The method includes scheduling a showing appointment by a showing agent for showing a real property using a showing scheduling system. The appointment includes a date time and user identifier identifying the showing agent. The showing scheduling system determines a key kiosk that contains a set of keys associated with the real property. The showing scheduling system determines whether there is a key within the set of keys that is available for the appointment date and time. When the key is available for the appointment date and time a server within the showing scheduling system automatically communicates the appointment to the key kiosk over the Internet. The key kiosk is adapted to dispense a plurality of keys corresponding to a plurality of real properties and including the set of keys receive the appointment from the showing scheduling system and authorize a user based on the appointment. When the user is authorized the key kiosk dispenses the key. The key kiosk also communicate to the showing scheduling system a status of the key as dispensed to the authorized user from the key kiosk. The showing scheduling system receives the status of the key and stores it into a database.

A person of ordinary skills in the art will appreciate that elements of the figures above are illustrated for simplicity and clarity and are not necessarily drawn to scale. The dimensions of some elements in the figures may have been exaggerated relative to other elements to help understanding of the present teachings. Furthermore a particular order in which certain elements parts components modules steps actions events and or processes are described or illustrated may not be actually required. A person of ordinary skills in the art will appreciate that for the purpose of simplicity and clarity of illustration some commonly known and well understood elements that are useful and or necessary in a commercially feasible embodiment may not be depicted in order to provide a clear view of various embodiments in accordance with the present teachings.

The disclosed invention provides for improved functionality and management of electronic lockboxes and electronic key devices by integrating an electronic lockbox system see with a showing management system see .

One aspect of this invention is automatic access control to an electronic lockbox utilizing scheduled showing appointment data maintained by the showing management system whereby the scheduled showing appointment data is transmitted to the associated electronic lockbox and or electronic key device . The electronic lockbox will open only when the actual access time is within the scheduled showing appointment time whereby the showing appointment time is the time range within which lockbox access is granted to a particular Showing Agent ID. The following example illustrates this access control 

Showing agent Smith with the Showing Agent ID 534 uses the showing management system to schedule a showing appointment for the property with the Listing ID 1234 on Jan. 11 2008 between 10 00 AM and 11 00 AM. The actual showing appointment time may begin some time before 10 00 AM X and end some time after 11 00 AM Y on Jan. 11 2008. The value for X and Y can be fixed values across the systems or could vary for example depending on individual showing appointments different showing management systems markets properties lockboxes etc. The showing management system also stores the Showing Agent ID of the showing agent authorized to access the electronic lockbox . The showing appointment time the Showing Agent ID and other data jointly constitutes showing appointment data. The showing management system then transmits the showing appointment data to the electronic lockbox that is assigned to the Listing ID for which the appointment was made. Assuming that in the above example the value for X has been set to 30 minutes and the value for Y has been set to 15 minutes the agent corresponding to Showing Agent ID 534 will not be able to access the lockbox associated with the Listing ID 1234 before 9 30 AM and after 11 15 AM on Jan. 11 2008. Furthermore in this example only the showing agent with the Showing Agent ID 534 will be allowed access to the lockbox between 9 30 AM and 11 15 AM on Jan. 11 2008.

In another embodiment of this invention the showing management system could allow for an assignment of a plurality of showing agents i.e. Showing Agent IDs to a particular scheduled showing appointment thus allowing for parallel and or overlapping appointments and access by more than one showing agent. In this case all the assigned agents form a team. A team may consist of two or more members and the team members can represent each other in the sense of scheduling appointments and showing properties. The information that a plurality of agents with different respective Showing Agent IDs are a team may be provided by the respective agents offices brokerage MLS or other entities. The showing management system is further able to define and manage teams of showing agents.

With regard to the transmission of the showing appointment data to the electronic lockbox there are many different possible embodiments. In one embodiment shown in the showing management system transmits the showing appointment data directly to the electronic lockbox that has been assigned to the property for which the showing has been scheduled. In this embodiment the specification of the electronic lockbox needs to include at least a power source such as a battery an internal controller an accurate timer which may be capable of synchronization with a time server and a storage medium for storing showing appointment data and the lockbox s own unique ID. In this embodiment the electronic lockbox is further capable to connect to remote servers such as those associated with a showing management system over a wireless communications network. The electronic lockbox may also be capable to send and receive encrypted data including encrypted showing appointment data. The wireless connection between the lockbox and the showing management system may be permanent or only temporary following an activation request. A wired connection may also be implemented but appears to be of limited practicality for portable electronic lockboxes.

In another embodiment shown in the showing management system transmits the showing appointment data directly to an electronic key device that has been assigned to the showing agent who is scheduled to show the property to which the transmitted showing appointment data pertains to. In this embodiment the specification of the electronic key device needs to include at least but is not limited to a power source an internal controller an accurate timer which may be capable of synchronization with a timer server and a storage medium for storing at least showing appointment data the key device s own unique ID or the Showing Agent ID who uses the key device . In this embodiment the electronic key device is further capable to connect to remote servers such as those associated with a showing management system over a wireless communications network. The electronic key device may also be capable to send and receive encrypted data including encrypted showing appointment data. The wireless connection between the key device and the showing management system may be permanent or only temporary following an activation request. A wired connection may also be implemented but appears to be of limited practicality for portable electronic key devices.

Once the showing appointment data is stored on the third party system it must be transmitted to the electronic lockbox and or the electronic key device . shows one embodiment of transmitting the showing appointment data from the third party system directly to the electronic lockbox via a communications link. shows another embodiment where the third party system transmits the showing appointment data directly to the electronic lockbox that has been assigned to the property for which the showing has been scheduled. However in this embodiment the electronic lockbox is operatively coupled to and potentially powered by a powered bridge relay device A capable of receiving and transmitting data. The bridge relay device A could be for example a computer a wireless LAN access point etc. The bridge relay device A is operatively coupled to the electronic lockbox via a wired or wireless communications link.

Once the showing appointment data is available at the electronic lockbox the actual access to lockbox is controlled by a logic executed inside the electronic lockbox . shows a possible sequence of steps for controlling access when the showing appointment data is available at the electronic lockbox . In this embodiment the logic inside the electronic lockbox compares the current date and time of the internal timer and the Showing Agent ID of the showing agent attempting to access the lockbox with the stored showing appointment data. As noted above the showing appointment time comprises a time range interval that may included a predetermined period of time before and after the actual showing appointment time as well as the Showing Agent ID of the showing agent for whom the appointment was made. In case the showing appointment was made for a plurality of showing agents or the showing management system has defined a team of showing agents each of the corresponding Showing Agent IDs would also be included in showing appointment data. If the accessing Showing Agent ID and the current access time match the stored showing appointment data the lockbox will grant access.

Alternatively the showing appointment data may be available at the electronic key device . shows an embodiment where the actual access to the lockbox is controlled by logic executed inside the electronic key device . In this embodiment the electronic key device connects to the electronic lockbox via a communications link. The key device then determines the Lockbox ID and the Listing ID this particular lockbox is presently assigned to from data that is stored on a storage device inside the electronic lockbox . The logic inside the key device then determines if the showing agent with a particular Showing Agent ID has a scheduled appointment for the Listing ID stored on the electronic lockbox by comparing the Listing ID with the one that is part of the showing appointment data stored inside the key device . If the Listing ID matches the logic inside the key device compares the current date and time of the internal timer with the stored showing appointment data. As noted above the showing appointment data comprises a time range interval that may include a predetermined period of time before and after the actual showing appointment time as well as the Showing Agent ID of the showing agent for whom the appointment was made. In case the showing appointment was made for a plurality i.e. team of showing agents each of the corresponding Showing Agent IDs would also be included in showing appointment data. If the current access time matches the stored showing appointment time the lockbox will grant access.

Reliable lockbox access control based on predetermined showing appointment data requires an accurate internal timer inside the electronic lockbox and or the electronic key device to ensure that access is actually granted during the predetermines showing times. Systems and methods to synchronize internal timing devices are widely known in the art. shows just one of many possible sequences of steps the electronic lockbox and or the electronic key device may execute to synchronize their internal timers. In this embodiment the electronic lockbox and or the electronic key device will establish a connection to a remote server via a communications link whereby the remote server will synchronize the internal timer.

The showing management system of this invention further programmatically matches a specific electronic lockbox with a specific Listing ID. As noted above most electronic lockboxes are capable of storing access data which may include but are not limited to Lockbox ID Showing Agent ID Access Date and Time Listing ID etc. However electronic lockboxes are only temporarily assigned to a specific property i.e. they are constantly moved from one listed property to the next and the seller s agent or listing office personnel is required to manually enter both the unique Lockbox ID and the Listing ID into the a database or other means of tracking the lockbox s location whenever it is moved to a new property. However many times this manual assignment is not completed by the agents or listing offices resulting in an incomplete lockbox access data record. A lockbox access data record where the Listing ID is missing may be formatted as below 

Prior art showing management services such as ShowingTime s ShowingDesk software see U.S. Pat. No. 6 973 432 allows real estate professionals especially listing and showing agents to schedule an appointment for a showing. A typical showing appointment data record stored in the showing management system s database may contain but is not limited to the data fields shown in the table below.

The showing management system of this invention compares available lockbox access records with the stored showing time appointment data records and programmatically matches a Listing ID to a Lockbox ID.

In order to process the lockbox access records they must be imported into the showing management system s database. In one embodiment the lockbox access records stored in the electronic lockboxes are transmitted via a communications link between the electronic lockbox and the showing management system s servers coupled to the showing management system s database. An imported lockbox access record from a particular electronic lockbox may look like the table below.

In the table above recorded Access Events L2 and L3 do not list Listing IDs. If desired the showing management system may perform preprocessing of the lockbox access record of a particular lockbox here lockbox with Lockbox ID 3453 to automatically fill in the missing Listing ID. This is designed to cover either of two scenarios 1 a user has inadvertently removed the assignment during the time period between events L1 and L4 or 2 the empty entries remain after other lockbox assignment steps described elsewhere in this disclosure have been done.

The flowchart of depicts one possible sequence of steps for preprocessing lockbox access records from a lockbox having a particular Lockbox ID. The showing management system gathers all available lockbox access records from one particular lockbox and orders all Access Events by Access Date and Access Time in ascending order. When an Access Event in the access record does not list a Listing ID the logic will compare the Listing ID recorded for the previous Access Event X with the first available Listing ID in an access event Y after this incomplete Access Event. If the Listing ID of Access event X and Y are identical the logic will set the Listing ID for all the incomplete Access Events between Access Event X and Y to that of Access Event X. Accordingly in the example above the showing management system s logic would automatically set the Listing ID for the Access Events L2 and L3 to 1234.

A similar preprocessing logic may also be used if a Listing ID in the lockbox access record is not missing but appear to be erroneous or inconsistent. For example Access Event L2 lists the Listing ID 1243 while the other Access Events list the Listing ID 1234.

Here the preprocessing logic would identify the Listing ID recorded for L2 i.e. 1243 as being inconsistent by comparing all Listing IDs recorded in the given lockbox access record. In the event the preprocessing logic fails to deliver an obvious correction with high certainty the showing management system will treat all inconsistent Listing IDs as if they were missing all together and will run this modified lockbox access record through the matching algorithm described below. The system will then compare the results of the matching algorithm with the original lockbox access record that contains the apparently inconsistent Lockbox IDs. If the matched Listing IDs are different from the original Lockbox IDs the showing management system will keep the Lockbox IDs that resulted from the matching algorithm.

The logic of is further explained in the following example. The following table contains a number of scheduled showing appointments.

Imported lockbox access records from different lockboxes where the Listing ID was not recorded or is missing may look like this 

For these sets of data it is likely that the lockbox with the Lockbox ID 9001 is assigned to Listing ID 1234 and Lockbox ID 9002 is assigned to Listing ID 5678.

The following examples will illustrate the application of the matching logic shown in . First Showing Appointment A1 for the showing of the property with the Listing ID 1234 was set for 3 00 PM for the showing agent with ID 582. According to the lockbox Access Event L1 Agent ID 582 was accessing Lockbox ID 9001 at 3 10 PM. Since the lockbox access by Agent ID 582 occurred at about the same time as the appointment was scheduled i.e. 10 minutes late it is likely that the showing agent was accessing the property with the Listing ID 1234 using the lockbox with the Lockbox ID 9001. Furthermore for this same reason it is unlikely that the other lockboxes in this exemplary lockbox access record match with Listing ID 1234 or that any other Listing ID is associated with Lockbox ID 9001.

Second Showing Appointment A2 for the showing of the property with the Listing ID 5678 was set for 3 30 PM for the showing agent with ID 566. According to the lockbox Access Event L2 Agent ID 566 was accessing Lockbox ID 9002 at 3 15 PM. Since the lockbox access occurred by Agent ID 566 at about the same time as the appointment was scheduled i.e. 15 minutes early it is likely that the showing agent was accessing the property with the Listing ID 5678 using the lockbox with Lockbox ID 9002. Furthermore for this same reason it is unlikely that the other lockboxes in this exemplary lockbox access record match with Listing ID 1234 or that any other Listing ID is associated with Lockbox ID 9002.

Third Showing Appointment A3 was set for a 4 00 PM showing of Listing ID 1234 by the agent having Agent ID 244. According to the lockbox Access Event L3 Agent ID 244 was accessing Lockbox ID 9001 at 3 50 PM. Since the lockbox access occurred by the agent having Agent ID 244 at about the same time as the appointment was scheduled i.e. 10 minutes early it is likely that the agent was accessing the property with the Listing ID 1234 using the lockbox with Lockbox ID 9001. Furthermore for this same reason it is unlikely that the other lockboxes match Listing ID 1234 or that any other Listing ID is associated with Lockbox ID 9001.

Finally this logic is also capable to determine the Showing Agent ID for a recorded Access Event should that data be absent from the record. In the table above the Showing Appointment A4 for a showing of Listing ID 1234 by Agent ID 868 was set for 5 30 PM. According to the lockbox Access Event L4 Lockbox ID 9001 was accessed by an unidentified showing agent at 5 31 PM. Since the lockbox access occurred at about the same time as the appointment was scheduled i.e. 1 minute late it is likely that the showing agent that was accessing the lockbox was the showing agent with Showing Agent ID 868 and that the associated property has the Listing ID 1234.

While the aforementioned matching algorithm is easy to implement and is reasonably efficient there is no guarantee that the matches generated by the algorithm are correct. For example in the likely case where multiple showings occur simultaneously and multiple fields are uncertain the above algorithm will not generate accurate matches. Therefore another aspect of this invention is the use of an improved matching algorithm incorporating statistical methods to generate an acceptable level of confidence. Cumulative probabilities for a standard normal distribution table are shown in .

When calculating the time difference interval the following algorithm is applied. When the recorded lockbox Access Time is before the scheduled appointment s start time then the appointment start time is subtracted from the lockbox Access Time. When the recorded lockbox Access Time is after a scheduled appointment s end time the appointment s end time is subtracted from the recorded lockbox Access Time. When the recorded lockbox Access Time is between the appointment s start and end time then the time interval is set to 0 zero . The smallest time intervals are then entered into a new interval data set. This interval data set is approximately a normal distribution.

Let X stand for the normal random variable of these intervals whose values are this data set and P stand for the cumulative probability. By utilizing the technique of standardizing a normal distribution Z X m s and the table of Cumulative Probabilities for a Standard Normal Distribution see we can establish the relationship between confidence intervals and probabilities. The following small table lists several value pairs of this relationship. A more refined table with many more entries or a formula approach may be used in an actual implementation.

For example one value from the above computed data set is 90 minutes. In the table above the smallest range the value 90 falls in is 77.47395295 to 93.40411168. Accordingly we can say that we are 90 confident that the match between the lockbox access record and showing appointment record is accurate. depicts one embodiment of logic to match a Listing ID with a Lockbox ID and to determine the confidence level of the accuracy of the match.

To further enhance the accuracy of the matches it should further be considered that the approximate normal distribution curve s properties mean and standard deviation may vary based on the underlying data set. There are many approaches to utilize this technique. One way is to categorize the lockbox access records by real estate agency offices groups of offices based on specific criteria such as for example geographical location real estate professional association etc. all offices or other criteria. After having computed the mean and standard deviation for each category it is applied to lockbox access records with missing Listing IDs that belong to the same category.

The aforementioned matching is based on only one lockbox access record. By itself this can be inaccurate and or impossible to use for matching. For example the disclosed matching algorithm cannot be used at all or will be highly inaccurate if 1 there are no showing appointments in the showing management s database that are associated with the Showing Agent ID recorded in the lockbox access record 2 even the smallest computed time difference between the recorded lockbox Access Date Access Time and all scheduled showing appointments for that particular Showing Agent ID on that particular Access Date is still too large i.e. outside the normal distribution or 3 some other irregularity occurs. Such an incomplete lockbox access record prior to matching efforts may look like this 

Based on the aforementioned matching different Listing IDs might be determined for these two Access Events. These two Access Events are presented as an example. There might be multiple records from the same Lockbox ID. When different Listing IDs are found for access records for the same Lockbox ID there are two scenarios. First the Access Events are timely ordered 

For example the lockbox access record above contains Listing IDs 123 234 and 456. If the access events are grouped by Listing IDs these subgroups are in timely sequential order. It can be assumed that the match is accurate and that the lockbox with Lockbox ID 3453 was indeed used on different properties i.e. was associated with different Listing IDs .

Note that in the example above Access Event L3 is not in timely order. There are many possible ways to process these noise cases and a variety of factors to consider whereby the results can vary dramatically. One possible way to approach these noise cases is to consider the computed confidence level for each matching. When in conflict the match with highest computed confidence level should overwrite possible matches with lower confidence levels. For example if the computed confidence level for Access Event L2 is 87 and the computed confidence level for Access Event L3 is only 13 then it is far more accurate if the system assigns Listing ID 123 to Access Event L3 instead of Listing ID 234.

The showing management system may not have available all lockbox access data when performing the disclosed matching algorithm. This may be the case when the lockbox access data are not promptly transmitted to the showing management system. Therefore the matching algorithm may be performed repeatedly to improve the matching accuracy. Each time the algorithm is performed it will have available more lockbox access data for processing than before. Accordingly the more historic lockbox access data are available for processing the more accurate the resulting matches are and it will be possible to assign most of the lockboxes i.e. Lockbox IDs to Listing IDs without having to rely on a constant availability of up to date lockbox access data.

According to the disclosed matching algorithm a recorded Access Event should match a scheduled showing appointment for the accessed property i.e. Listing ID . However there may be instances where the showing agent is not the same agent for whom a showing appointment was scheduled. In other words a showing agent with a Showing Agent ID different from the one that was scheduled access the lockbox. There are two possible scenarios.

First the Access Event is the intended showing of the appointment. In this case the accessing showing agent and the agent for whom the showing appointment was made form a team. A team may consist of two or more members and the team members can represent each other in the sense of scheduling appointments and showing properties. The information that a plurality of agents with different respective Showing Agent IDs are a team can be provided by the respective agents offices brokerage MLS or other entities. The showing management system is further capable of defining and managing teams of showing agents. To allow for accurate matching in cases like this the disclosed matching algorithm must be able to treat a plurality of different Showing Agent IDs as one when processing lockbox access records and showing time appointment records. The algorithm is required to be resilient to this situation. It does so by cumulatively building the probability prior to the final assignment.

Second the Access Event is not the intended showing of the appointment. In this case the disclosed matching algorithm cannot produce a match. However the Refine lockbox data process described below could assign a Listing ID to this lockbox Access Event.

It is very likely that the result of a matching process is not accurate. For example one result might look like what is described in the following table assuming any noise or conflicts have been resolved.

Ratings can be established on a result of a matching process. One rating may be the sum of these confidence levels. In this example the rating would be 0.9 0.0 0.7 0.8 2.4. The next table is the result of a subsequent matching process.

In this case the rating for this matching process is 0.9 0.0 0.7 0.9 2.5. When comparing the two ratings i.e. 2.4 and 2.5 the rating of 2.5 is higher and the system should accept the matching results of the matching process with the higher rating.

In the last two tables above the Access Date of Access Event L5 is closer to the Access Date of L4 than to the Access Date of L6. The match ratings are further improved by assigning a bigger weight to the matching results of the first table. There are many different ways to assign weights. One possible way is 1 n whereby n is the sum of 1 and the number of days between the Access Event of the matched Access Event and the previous or subsequent Access Event whichever is closer. If the previous or subsequent Access Event doesn t have the same Listing ID as the matched Access Event then n is set to a fixed number. The appropriate value for n may be the number of unassigned lockboxes in the set of possible lockboxes. In this example the value for n is n 365. Based on this improvement the new ratings would be 0.9 1 1 0.0 0.7 1 365 0.8 1 3 1.168584 and 0.9 1 1 0.0 0.7 1 365 0.85 1 5 1.071918. Based on this adjusted rating the result of the first matching is a better one.

There may be a recorded lockbox Access Event though no showing appointment was scheduled. This is particularly common on vacant properties. Since there is no scheduled showing appointment for the lockbox the lockbox cannot be assigned to the property Listing ID.

Before the lockbox access records are run through the disclosed matching algorithm the records may look like this 

After the matching the records may look like the following table. This pattern may be repeated for a large set of records. Here Access Events L1 L4 and L5 are now assigned to the same Listing ID.

In this refinement process the Listing ID 123 was assigned to Access Events L2 and L3. The refinement logic may be similar to the one shown in i.e. Preprocessing of lockbox access data .

In instances where a plurality of showing agents i.e. a showing agent team is assigned to a particular Listing ID the disclosed logic and matching algorithms may also be used to assure correct matching of Listing ID and Showing Agent IDs. Like matching individual Showing Agent IDs with a Listing ID the showing management system would use the same available showing appointment data and imported lockbox access records. The disclosed algorithms and methods to improve the matching accuracy would be applied repeatedly to account for members joining or leaving a team. The matching results may also be used for controlling the access to an electronic lockbox.

In a further aspect of the disclosed system a showing appointment making system may be coupled with a key delivery kiosk. The disclosed system may be advantageously used with any high density real estate property such as for example an apartment complex a condominium complex or a town home development. Using the disclosed system a user of the showing management system such as an agent or a potential buyer may make an appointment to show a real property. The user may then proceed to the key delivery kiosk which may advantageously be disposed at a real estate office. Using methods defined herein the key delivery kiosk will receive the showing time period from the showing scheduling system and will make a key available to the user at the time of the showing.

The process by which the disclosed system may be used is generally described in as well. First a user makes an appointment to view a real property using the disclosed showing scheduling system. Based on the selected property the showing scheduling system will determine which key delivery kiosk will be used to deliver a particular key to the user. The showing scheduling system may then interface with the appropriate key delivery kiosk and determine the key status or alternatively the showing scheduling system may determine the key status from a local database. The key delivery kiosk is then updated with appointment and access information such as for example the start and end time of the appointment as well as an identifier corresponding to a realtor who will conduct the showing. At the appropriate time the user goes to the kiosk and retrieves the key. The key kiosk then updates the showing scheduling system with the keys status i.e. that the key is out with the user. The user then returns the key to the key kiosk which then updates the showing scheduling system with the key s updated status i.e. the key is available for use again.

After determining the proper kiosk the showing management system retrieves the status of the key associated with the property for which a showing is to be scheduled in step . The showing management system may accomplish this step by accessing a key database maintained by the showing management system based on updates received from various key kiosks or the showing management system may direct query the appropriate key kiosk for the status of the desired key. In step the showing scheduling system determines if a key is available for the selected property at the desired date and time. If no key is available execution transitions to step where any other functionality necessary for the user may be performed. Such functionality may include for example displaying a schedule of when a key is available and allowing the user to select a different time for the appointment. After any additional functionality is provided to the user the method exits in step . However if a key is available for the selected property at the desired date and time of the appointment a showing database is updated with the appointment information as well as the kiosk and possibly the key information in step . In step the showing system updates the key kiosk with the appointment information as well including an authorized user identifier the appointment start time the appointment end time and a property identifier. The method then exits in step .

In one implementation when a showing agent fails to return the key to the key kiosk within a predetermined amount time such as one hour or three hours after her showing appointment time she is not allowed to obtain an additional key from the key kiosk or a different key kiosk. This rule can be implemented by a software program running on the key kiosk or the showing scheduling system including one or more servers . Referring to a flowchart depicting a process by which the software program manages the key retrieval process is shown and generally indicated at . At the software program receives the showing agent credential information that is manually entered by the agent at the key kiosk for the purpose of obtaining a key from the key kiosk . For example the showing agent enters her showing agent ID and or a security code such as a pin number or password using a touch screen or keypad of the key kiosk . Alternatively the showing agent provides her authorization credentials by using an accessing device such as a smartphone to transmit her credentials to the key kiosk over a wireless connection such as a Bluetooth Infrared or WiFi connection .

At based on the showing agent s credential the software program authenticates the showing agent. For example the software program communicates with the showing scheduling system to authenticate the agent. As an additional example the software program accesses a local database containing authentication information to authenticate the agent. After the agent is authenticated at the software program authorizes the showing agent s access to the key kiosk . For example at the software program determines whether the showing agent has not returned any checked out key s to the key kiosk or a different key kiosk. In one implementation the software program requests the system to determine whether the showing agent has possession of any unreturned key that should have been returned. The system accesses a database to determine whether there is any key that the showing agent still have possession of a key that has not been returned beyond a predetermined timeframe from any key kiosks. If so at the software program denies the showing agent s request for a key. For example the software program displays a denial message on a screen of the key kiosk or plays a sound indicating the denial. In other words at the key kiosk refuses to dispense a key to the showing agent.

Turning back to if the showing agent does not have any unreturned keys at the key kiosk dispenses a key for the showing agent to access a real property or property for short . As used herein a property is also referred to as a listing or property listing. At the software program logs the key dispensing event. In one implementation the software program logs the event by recording the event in a local database. In a further implementation at the software program communicating the event to the system which records the event in a database such as a relational database. The record or records in the database indicate the showing agent the dispensed key the key kiosk date and time when the key is dispensed etc.

When the showing agent returns the key she may return it to the key kiosk from which the key is dispensed or a different key kiosk. The system then updates a database to indicate that the showing agent has returned the key. Turning to a sequence diagram depicting a process by which key return status is updated is shown and generally indicated at . When the showing agent retrieves the key from the key kiosk and returns it to a different key kiosk at a software program running on the key kiosk determines that the key has been returned to the key kiosk . At the software program notifies a server within the showing scheduling system that the key has been returned to the key kiosk by for example sending a message making a web request or calling a web interface to the server . The notification further indicates that the key is now available at the key kiosk instead of the key kiosk . At a server software program running on the server receives the notification and updates a database reflecting the fact that the key has been returned to the key kiosk by the showing agent. In a further implementation at the database is updated to indicate that the returned key is no longer available at the previous key kiosk .

Moreover the server software program or a different software program running on a different server provides a report indicating the available keys at each key kiosk when a key is dispensed meaning checked out when a key is returned meaning checked in the key kiosk where a key is dispended the key kiosk where a key is returned etc. At the software program generates the report. The report can be generated in response to a request through a web page. Alternatively the server software program generates the report as part of a background process. For example at 2 00 AM each morning the server software program generates the report and saves it on a storage device.

In one embodiment in accordance with the present teachings when the showing agent schedules a showing appointment to show a property by accessing the showing appointment scheduling system a barcode such as a Quick Response Code QR code is generated for retrieving a key from the key kiosk . The retrieved key is used to access the property. For example the showing agent presents the QR code for scanning by the key kiosk . The software program running on the key kiosk retrieves information contained in the QR code and authenticate and authorize the agent based on such information. The retrieved information may include for example an identifier of the property the key kiosk that contains the key the showing appointment time such as beginning time and end time of the showing appointment the showing agent ID of the showing agent an access code such as a pin number etc.

In one implementation a server software program running on a server such as the server within the system generates the QR code and presents the QR on a web page. The web page containing the QR code is displayed on a mobile communication device such as a smartphone that is used and operated by the showing agent. The showing agent then has the QR code scanned by the key kiosk for retrieving the key. Alternatively a mobile software program running on the smartphone generates the QR code and displays it on the screen of the smartphone for scanning by the key kiosk .

Turning to a sequence diagram depicting a process by which the QR code is used to retrieve a key from the key kiosk is shown and generally indicated at . At the server software program creates a showing appointment identifying the showing appointment beginning time the showing appointment end time the property and the showing agent for the showing appointment. The server software program further saves the generated showing appointment into a database operatively coupled to the server . At the server software program determines the key kiosk such as the key kiosk that contains one or more keys to the property of the showing appointment. The determination can be achieved by for example querying the database that includes one or more database records indicating the association between keys key kiosks and properties.

At the server software program automatically sends the showing appointment related data such as showing appointment data and an access code to the key kiosk over the network such as the Internet . For example the showing agent ID and the beginning time and end time of the showing appointment are sent to the key kiosk . Alternatively a security code or a pin number is sent to the key kiosk for the showing appointment. The security code is also provided to the showing agent by for example displaying it on a web page when the showing agent makes the showing appointment or sending it to the smartphone using a text or Email message.

In a further implementation a starting key retrieval time before the beginning time of the showing appointment is also sent to the key kiosk . The staring key retrieval time determines the earliest time when the agent can access the key kiosk to obtain the key for the showing appointment. For example when the showing appointment is from 2 00 PM to 2 45 PM on Apr. 18 2014 and the starting key retrieval time is 1 45 PM the agent is only allowed to access the key kiosk on or after 1 45 PM on Apr. 18 2014 for retrieving a key to access the property for the scheduled showing appointment. In a different implementation the element is not performed. In such a case the key kiosk replies on the server or the system to make certain decisions. In alternate embodiments the starting key retrieval time is not set or enforced or set to a large number.

At the server software program sends the showing appointment and information such as ID and location of the key kiosk to a mobile device such as the smartphone used by the showing agent. As used herein the mobile device is said to be associated with the showing agent. In a further implementation the security code or the pin number sent to the key kiosk is also provided to the showing agent by for example displaying it on a web page when the showing agent makes the showing appointment or sending it to the mobile device using a text or Email message. At the mobile software application running on the mobile device receives the showing appointment and other data and generates and displays the QR code. Alternatively at the mobile device displays a web page including the QR code. In such a case the web page and the QR code are generated by the server .

At the showing agent presents the QR code for being scanned by the key kiosk incorporating a QR code scanner device. At the key kiosk scans the QR code. At the software program running on the key kiosk authenticates and authorizes the showing agent based on the information contained in the QR code. For example the software program authenticates the showing agent by checking when the showing agent ID and showing appointment time match that received at .

In a different implementation the software program sends the showing appointment data retrieved from the QR code to the server for authentication and or authorization. It should be noted that at the agent can be required to enter a security code pin number passcode password etc. for accessing the key kiosk to retrieve a key. When the showing agent is authenticated and authorized at at the key kiosk dispenses a key to the agent for accessing the property. It should be noted that the agent may scan the QR code before the starting key retrieval time for the showing appointment. In such a case the agent is not authorized to retrieve a key from the key kiosk which will not dispense the key.

In a further implementation the physical location meaning geographical location of the showing agent is used to authenticate and authorize the showing agent for dispensing a key. As used herein the physical location of the mobile device is regarded as the physical location of the showing agent. The physical location of the mobile device is for example its GPS Global Positioning System location. Alternatively the physical location of the mobile device is determined using cellular phone triangulation technologies or inertia tracking systems. Referring to a sequence diagram depicting a process by which the physical location of the showing agent is used to retrieve a key from a key kiosk is shown and generally indicated at . At the server software program generates a showing appointment and stores it into a database. At the server software program determines the key kiosk that contains a key for accessing the property for which the showing appointment is made by the showing agent. At the server software program optionally sends the showing appointment and other data to the key kiosk over the network .

At the mobile software program periodically retrieves the GPS location of the mobile device and provides the GPS locations to the server software program. For example the GPS location represented by GPS coordinates is retrieved by calling an Application Programming Interface API . The GPS coordinates can also be provided by registering a GPS location listener with a GPS system running on the mobile device . At based on the GPS locations the server software program determines that the mobile device is within a predetermined range defined by a radius or blocks from the physical location of the key kiosk . At the server software program notifies the key kiosk by for example sending a message to the key kiosk over the network that the showing agent is near the key kiosk now. In other words the showing agent is within a predetermined range such as within one hundred feet from the key kiosk .

At the showing agent accesses the key kiosk trying to retrieve a key to access and show the real property by entering for example an access code. The access code can be for example her showing agent ID a security code a pin number a passcode or password. At the software program running on the key kiosk retrieves the access code. At the software program authenticates and authorizes the showing agent based on the access code the notification sent at and the showing appointment and other data sent at . For example the agent is authenticated because of the correct access code is entered and the fact that the showing agent is nearby the key kiosk . In addition the showing agent is authorized to retrieve a key when she has a showing appointment to show the property and the current time is after the starting key retrieval time for the showing appointment. When the showing agent is authenticated and is authorized to use a key to access the real property at the key kiosk dispenses the key.

After the showing of the property the showing agent returns the key to the key kiosk . In a further implementation the showing agent is not required to return the key to the key kiosk and can return the key to a different key kiosk such as the key kiosk . For example the showing agent forgets about returning the key to the key kiosk and leaves the property after the showing. In such a case as further illustrated by reference to the showing agent uses the mobile software application running on the mobile device to locate key kiosks near her physical location.

Referring to a sequence diagram depicting a process by which the mobile software application presents nearby key kiosks to the showing agent is shown and generally indicated at . At the mobile software application requests for key kiosks near e.g. within five miles the showing agent s current physical location by for example calling a web service interface of or makes a web request such as a HTTP request to the server over an Internet connection. In one implementation the physical location is identified by the GPS location of the mobile device . The GPS location is received from the mobile device . The request further indicates the current GPS location of the mobile device and the identification of the showing agent. At the server selects key kiosks that are close meaning within a predetermined range to the showing agent and are configured to receive the key. At the server returns a list of key kiosks over an Internet connection. Each key kiosk is indicated by for example a GPS location. At the mobile software application displays the list of key kiosks on a screen of the mobile device . For example the list of key kiosks is displayed on a map. The showing agent then selects a key kiosk to return the key. Alternatively the list of key kiosks are displayed on a web page provided by the server .

Oftentimes a showing agent shows multiple properties in a showing tour route. For example the showing agent shows four properties during a time frame of five hours. A server software program running on the server determines the tour route based on for example the showing appointment time and GPS location for each of the multiple properties. When access to one or more of the multiple properties requires the showing agent to obtain a key from a key kiosk it is desirable to include the key kiosk in the showing tour route. The destination and direction to the key kiosk take the showing agent to the key kiosk before she shows the corresponding property. The improved showing tour route generation is further illustrated by reference to .

Referring to a flowchart depicting a process by which the server determines a showing tour is shown and generally indicated at . At the server software program receives a request from for example the mobile device to generate a showing tour. At the server software program determines a set of properties to be shown by the showing agent during the showing tour. For example through a web page the showing agent selects the set of properties for her showing tour. As an additional example by accessing the showing appointment scheduling system the showing agent makes a set of showing appointments to show the set of properties. The set of showing appointments identifies the set of properties. Each property has a physical location.

At the server software program determines a subset of properties of the set that require a physical key from a key kiosk to access. The key requirement can be preconfigured and stored in a database. At the server software program determines a key kiosk for each property in the subset. From the selected key kiosk the showing agent can check out a key to access the corresponding property. It should be noted that the selected key kiosk needs to have a key available for accessing the corresponding property at the scheduled time of showing. The key availability status for each key kiosk is stored in a database or memory. At the server software program generates a showing tour with stops at each property in the set and each key kiosk in the set of key kiosks. In the generated tour route each key kiosk is placed immediately before the corresponding property. A sample showing tour is further illustrated by reference to . The tour starts from the current position of the showing agent with the first stop being a property . The second stop is a property . The third stop is a key kiosk containing a key for accessing a property . The property is the fourth stop of the tour . The fifth stop of the tour is a property . It should be noted that directions are not displayed in for the purpose of simplicity and clarity of illustration.

Turning back to at the server software program sends the generated showing tour to the mobile device . For example the showing tour is presented on a web page. As an additional example the showing tour is sent to the mobile device in an Email message or a text message. The showing tour includes a destination address and directions to the destination address for each stop within the tour. The directions are determined based on the immediate preceding stop.

The showing agent sometimes shows multiple properties with common facilities within a short time frame such as two or three hours. For example the showing agent shows two condos or apartments of the same building during a single visit to the building. The two condos have a shared main building entrance and or garage. To access each of the two condo the showing agent needs a key to enter the main building entrance and a separate key to access the specific condo. However the showing agent only needs a single key for entering the main building and two separate keys to access the two condos. In such a case it is desirable that the key kiosk only dispenses a single not two key for accessing the main building entrance and two additional keys for the two condos.

Referring now to a sequence diagram depicting a process by which only a single key to common facilities is dispensed when multiple properties are shown. At the server within the showing appointment scheduling system creates a set of showing appointments for showing a corresponding set of properties such as the two condo of the example above . At the server determines the key kiosk such as the key kiosk that contains available keys for the corresponding set of properties. At the server automatically sends the set of showing appointments to the key kiosk over the network . In a further implementation at the server sends one or more access codes such as the showing agent s ID corresponding to the set of showing appointments to the key kiosk .

When the showing agent accesses the key kiosk to retrieve the keys for the two condos she enters the access code. At the key kiosk retrieves the access code through an input device of the key kiosk . At the key kiosk authenticates and authorizes the showing agent based on the access code and the showing appointments. In a different implementation the key kiosk sends user input such as the access code entered by the showing agent to the server for authentication and or authorization. In such a case the key kiosk relies on the decision by the server to determine whether to dispense a key s to the showing agent.

When the showing agent is successfully authenticated and authorized at the key kiosk determines that only a single key to a common facility such as the main building entrance in the example above is needed to access each property in the set of properties. In a different implementation the decision that only a single common key is needed is made by the server and sent to the key kiosk . At the key kiosk dispenses the single common key and one additional key for each property in the set of properties.

Sometimes one showing agent physically hands over a key to another showing agent without first returning the key to the key kiosk from which the key is dispensed. In such a case the showing appointment scheduling system coordinates the key transfer as further illustrated in . Referring now to a sequence diagram depicting a process by which the system coordinates the key transfer is shown and generally indicated at . After the first showing agent transfers a key for accessing a property she presses for example a button provided by the mobile software application running on an associated mobile device to indicate that she has transferred the key to the second showing agent operating the mobile device .

At the mobile software application notifies the server of the transfer of the key by for example sending a message to or calling an application programming interface of the server over an Internet connection. The message indicates that the first agent has transferred the key to the second agent. The agents are identified by for example their showing agent IDs. The ID of the second showing agent can be entered on the mobile device by the first showing agent. Alternatively the ID of the second showing agent is programmatically determined based on for example her showing appointment the ID of the first showing agent and the time of the key transfer. At the server sends a confirmation request to the mobile device over the Internet requiring the second showing agent to confirm the key transfer. The request can be for example a text message an Email message a phone call or a proprietary application message.

At the mobile software application running on the mobile device confirms the key transfer by sending for example a replying text message a replying Email message a replying phone call or a replying proprietary application message to the server . At the server updates the status of the transferred key. For example the updated status indicates that the key has been checked out by the second showing agent instead of the first showing agent. In other words at the server indicates that the key has been returned by the first showing agent and is checked out by the second showing agent. The status update is recorded in a database.

Obviously many additional modifications and variations of the present disclosure are possible in light of the above teachings. Thus it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the disclosure may be practiced otherwise than is specifically described above. For example a QR code or RFID meaning Radio Frequency Identification tag is printed on each key. When the key is obtained from and returned to a front desk person. The front desk person scans the QR code or RFID tag when the key is checked out and checked in. The scanner is connected to a computer which sends the key status to the server .

The foregoing description of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description and is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. The description was selected to best explain the principles of the invention and practical application of these principles to enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention in various embodiments and various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the scope of the invention not be limited by the specification but be defined by the claims set forth below. In addition although narrow claims may be presented below it should be recognized that the scope of this invention is much broader than presented by the claim s . It is intended that broader claims will be submitted in one or more applications that claim the benefit of priority from this application. Insofar as the description above and the accompanying drawings disclose additional subject matter that is not within the scope of the claim or claims below the additional inventions are not dedicated to the public and the right to file one or more applications to claim such additional inventions is reserved.

