---

title: System and method for citation processing, presentation and transport and for validating references
abstract: The present invention comprises a system and method for automatically processing one or more citations contained within a document while the document is presented by a document rendering application. The method of the present invention comprises scanning the document to identify an unformatted citation and parsing the unformatted citation to determine one or more citation terms. One or more citation libraries are queried to find citations comprising the one or more citation terms. A citation falling within the scope of the query is selected and inserted into the document. The present invention may further provide enhanced workflow solutions for authors and publishers in preparing documents in structured format for facilitating efficient and accurate validation of references cited or included in papers and other submissions for publication or for review. An author prepares a document containing a set of cited references using a formatting structure. A system includes a processor to process the document to extract embedded metadata associated with the set of cited references. The processor executes code associated with a reference validation software module and automatically recognizes the formatting structure and the embedded metadata. The processor automatically extracts the embedded metadata and compares the extracted metadata against an authority database to determine the validity of the set of cited references.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09177013&OS=09177013&RS=09177013
owner: Thomson Reuters Global Resources
number: 09177013
owner_city: 
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20140318
---
The present application claims benefit of priority as a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 161 438 filed Jun. 6 2011 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CITATION PROCESSING PRESENTATION AND TRANSPORT AND FOR VALIDATING REFERENCES all of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The field of the invention relates generally to document processing and more particularly to systems and methods for dynamically processing citation data particularly literary citations for presentation within a document rendering application such as a word processor. The invention further relates generally to information science and infometrics or informetrics and more particularly to the fields of bibliometrics and scientometrics and validating reference information included in works of authorship.

With the advents of the printing press typeset typewriting machines and computer implemented word processing and storage the amount of information generated by mankind has risen dramatically and with an ever quickening pace. As a result there is a continuing and growing need to accurately collect and store identify track classify and catalogue for retrieval and distribution this growing sea of information.

In the area of scholarly and scientific research and writing a sophisticated process and convention for documenting research supporting materials and organizing fields of study has emerged called bibliographic citation. Such scientific writings include among other things books articles published in journals magazines or other periodicals manuscripts and papers presented submitted and published by society industry and professional organizations such as in proceedings and transactions publications. To facilitate the widespread distribution of information published in scholarly writings to more efficiently and effectively move bodies of study forward scholars and scientists use bibliographic citation to recognize the prior work of others or even themselves on which advancements set forth in their writings are based. Citations or cited references as included in any particular work or body of work is used herein to refer broadly to cited references bibliographic or other reference data that collectively form in text citations footnotes endnotes and bibliographies and are used to identify sources of information relied on or considered by the author and to give the reader a way to confirm accuracy of the content and direction for further study. A bibliography may refer to either of a complete or selective list or compilation of writings specific to an author publisher or given subject or it may refer to a list or compilation of writings relied on or considered by an author in preparing a particular work such as a paper article book or other informational object.

Citations briefly describe and identify each cited writing as a source of information or reference to an authority. Citations and bibliographies follow particular formatting conventions to enhance consistency in interpreting the information. Each citation typically includes the following information full title author name s publication data including publisher identity volume edition and other data and date and location of publication. Given the formatting requirements and numerous fields associated with each citation and given that there are tens and in some cases hundreds of citations in a given paper the likelihood of misspellings and typographical errors presents a substantial problem in the publishing and research processes. Perhaps other than the title associated with a given paper most of the fields are inherently ambiguous. For example even the volume page and date fields or data for a given reference is not particularly helpful in the event of an error. As opposed to the title information where one letter missing or misspelled in one word from a string of words still leaves usable information a missing or erroneous date or volume character makes the rest of the data largely useless or at least unreliable. Also. author names are most usually in an abbreviated form such as an initial rather than full first or middle names e.g. J. Smith or suffer naturally from commonality with other authors such as having either a common first or last name or both e.g. John Smith. This results in a latent ambiguity as to the actual identity of the author. There have been many attempts to disambiguate author and other citation information. A system and method for disambiguating information is disclosed in U.S. Ser. No. 11 799 786 filed May 2 2007 entitled Method and System for Disambiguating Information Objects which is owned by the assignee of the present application and is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In support of the pursuits of science and research databases database management tools citation management and analysis tools research authoring tools and other powerful tools and resources have been used and developed for the beneficial use of scholars researchers and scientists. These tools and resources may be available to users in an online environment over the Internet or some other computer network and may be in the form of a client server architecture central and or local database application service provider ASP or other environment for effectively communicating and accessing electronic databases and software tools. Examples of such tools and resources are Thomson Scientific s Web of Science WoS Web of Knowledge WoK and ResearchSoft suite of publishing solutions including EndNote EndNoteWeb ProCite Reference Manager and RefViz as well as solutions such as Scholar One s Manuscript Central . A longstanding problem in the publication process has been accurately entering citation information in papers during creation and the time consuming and tedious process of manually verifying the accuracy of the citation prior to publication. Small but critical errors such as incomplete information and incorrect information e.g. misspellings and typographical errors cause the author and publisher to lose credibility and cause the reader to waste effort searching for the referenced material incorrectly cited in the document.

Techniques used to help build out databases and confirm database information include extraction and sorting such as parsing of data from sentence or word structures performed on electronic documents to extract information from papers and citations for further processing.

 Writings manuscripts and papers as used herein shall refer to both hard documents and soft electronic documents and shall be used interchangeably and given the broadest collective meaning. Such works of authorship are now widely created edited maintained archived catalogued and researched in whole or in part electronically. The Internet and other networks and intranets facilitate electronic distribution of and access to such information. The advent of databases database management systems and search languages and in particular relational databases e.g. DB2 and others developed by IBM Oracle Sybase Microsoft and others has provided powerful research and development tools and environments in which to further advance all areas of science and the study of science. There are companies and institutions that have created electronic databases and associated services such as WoS and WoK that are specifically designed to help organize and harness the vast array of knowledge.

Thousands of papers and manuscripts are submitted to reviewers and publishers daily by authors and many of the submissions include malformed references. To catch and correct these errors the current path to publication usually includes a manual reference validation step consisting of checks for style and content accuracy. The validation task may be performed by a variety of roles most commonly by a copy editor or a production editor but also possibly by a typesetter. With papers and manuscripts commonly containing dozens or hundreds of cited references the validation process is tedious and time consuming and adds significant costs to the publication process having been estimated to account for up to 60 of a publisher s correction and formatting effort.

Recent developments have provided a significant opportunity to develop reference validation tools within the context of manuscript creation submission approval proofing and production processes. Many reference databases which may be referred to herein as authority databases have become available via web service connections. It is now possible to efficiently pull or extract reference lists from a manuscript or electronic document into XML. Also processes used in the paper creation and submission process may be extended into the production stage of the publishing process to provide a complimentary coordinated and efficient overall process.

Robust and accurate reference mark up and validation tools are needed to effectively reduce the cost and burden associated with validating references prior to publication.

Existing effort and systems directed to validation XML scholarly meta data etc. include the following. XML validation which presently applies to the validation of the XML tags and schema in a document and not to validating the associated data. Scholarly meta data and linking refers to for example the creation of a Digital Object Identifier DOI or unique digital identifier for a specific scholarly work for example a URL. DOI may be used to identify content objects in a digital environment. Entities operating over digital networks are assigned DOI names and have associated with them current information including address information. Name information does not change but other information e.g. address may change over time. A DOI system provides a framework for managing the following identification content metadata links and media.

Improved methods and systems for automatically processing literary citations are needed to ensure or facilitate accuracy of processed citations as well as select a citation from one or more acceptable citations based on a limited set of citation data such as provided by an author within a document or a file associated with the document such as a bibliography or other list of source materials or references.

The present invention is directed to systems and methods for automatically processing one or more citations contained within a document while the document is presented by a document rendering application. The method of the present invention comprises scanning the document to identify an unformatted citation and parsing the unformatted citation to determine one or more citation terms. One or more citation libraries are queried to find citations comprising the one or more citation terms. A citation falling within the scope of the query is selected properly formatted and inserted into the document.

In order to automate the processing of citations contained within a document scanning is executed periodically. According to one embodiment of the invention scanning is executed when an idle state is identified. The method may comprise embedding into the document a traveling library comprising citation data that forms the citation inserted into the document. Also links to citation data may be inserted that forms the citation falling within the scope of the query.

The present invention also contemplates a system for automatically processing one or more citations contained within a document while the document is presented by a document rendering application. The system of the present invention comprises citation editor software to identify an unformatted citation within the document. The citation editor software works in conjunction with a citation application to receive the unformatted citation retrieve a citation that matches the unformatted citation from a citation library and pass the citation back to the citation editor software for formatting and insertion into the document. The citation editor software may identify the unformatted citation on a periodic basis such as when an idle state is identified.

The system may make use of a shared library to convert data from a first format to a second format. Accordingly the first format may be a native format of the citation editor software and the second format a native format of the citation application. A traveling library may be employed that contains citation data that forms the citation which is embedded into the document. According to embodiments of the invention links are inserted into the document linking to citation data that forms the citation which may comprise a drawing or chart.

The present invention provides enhanced workflow solutions for authors e.g. researchers scientists and scholarly authors and publishers e.g. journals and professional and technical societies in validating references cited or included in papers and other submissions for publication or for review. The invention accelerates the time to publish or market papers journals meeting abstracts and conference proceedings and delivers significant productivity gains in the process. The invention enables users to access research and other productivity solutions remotely such as via the Internet across the world. The invention provides value added information with software tools and applications that help users become better informed and make better decisions and do both more efficiently. Although the invention may be described herein in the context of scientific research the invention is also applicable in other applications and environments including assisting users in the fields of law tax accounting higher education reference information corporate e learning and assessment financial services and healthcare.

In one embodiment the present invention provides an integrated or integrate able system of research and authoring productivity software for use in conjunction with databases of interest e.g. WoS WoK CrossRef and PubMed. By way of example Thomson Scientific applications EndNote EndNote Web ProCite Reference Manager RefViz Abstract Central Proceedings Central and Manuscript Central are commercially available systems that may be used to provide a comprehensive solution to create write publish submit and manage bibliographies papers publications and other scholarly pursuits. Many of the functions included in this system of solutions may be automated. The invention may be used with one or more or a combination of such solutions. Manuscript Central provides a web based database driven peer review and online submission solution for scholarly publishers. Manuscript Central automates manuscript submission to journals and allows for easy administrative editing and reviewing capabilities.

EndNote ProCite and Reference Manager are desktop applications but may also be browser based applications used to publish and manage bibliographies. With these products users e.g. students writing papers professionals publishing research can for example do the following search Internet databases to build personal reference libraries import references from online and CD ROM databases and library catalogs format bibliographies automatically for hundreds of scholarly publications use Cite While You Write feature with Microsoft Word to create bibliographies instantly as references are cited. EndNote Web is a Web based tool for managing and citing references in papers and creating bibliographies. Integrated seamlessly with EndNote desktop and the ISI Web of Knowledge research platform EndNote Web provides an online collaborative environment for existing EndNote users and an entree for undergraduate students requiring a basic bibliographic solution. RefViz provides a text analysis and visualization tool and works seamlessly with EndNote ProCite and Reference Manager to provide a powerful way to explore reference libraries visually for major themes and topics. RefViz allows users to quickly evaluate vast amounts of references accelerating the research process.

In one embodiment the invention automatically validates references cited. As used to describe the invention validating a reference does not merely mean to check citation format but rather means to validate that the cited reference actually exists and was published as cited. The difference is that a reference may be in appropriate format but yet may not relate to an existing publication. The goal of the invention is to confirm the accuracy of the submitted data. It is important to confirm that references identified in submitted papers exist so that readers can use the cited references to obtain copies of the referenced material to verify that the reference stands for the proposition as represented in the citing paper and to use the reference to facilitate further research. The validation process of the invention is to confirm that the cited reference actually exists. Validation means to confirm that the title author citation and other data appearing in the cited reference is accurate and not merely that it is in proper format. In this manner simple errors wholly incorrect cites and fraudulent representations may be discovered and acted upon.

After running the validation process on a submitted paper or extracted reference list the system can respond to the user or other concern involved in the process e.g. peer review board in any of a number of ways. For example the system can give an indication of verification identify which references have or have not been validated delineate the data or fields in the cited reference or document that appear to be incorrect and suggest closely matching reference data as a substitute for the erroneous data. The system can also include hyperlinks for example associated with the cited references to directly link the results page with the actual confirmed reference or a suggested reference. The invention is not limited to validating authors citations dates etc. and can be used to validate any feature appearing in a cited reference or even a paper for which there is a corresponding authority database against which the data may be compared. For example if an author claims to be a Fellow or Member of a society e.g. IEEE or a member of the faculty of a school or in a chaired position for example then as long as the system has access to an authority database of membership data for that society or faculty the information from the paper or other document may be extracted marked up or otherwise and may be compared against the database and the data validated. In addition these processes may be used to validate that the paper has not previously been published. As part of the process a user can select from a list of databases against which the validation process is to be performed or the system may default to a predefined set of one or more databases. Exemplary databases for use with the present invention include public reference databases e.g. CrossRef and PubMed commercial databases e.g. Web of Science WoS Web of Knowledge WoK and BIOSYS and privately held specialized databases.

In one embodiment the invention provides a computer based method for processing one or more citations within a document. The method includes identifying in an electronic document an unformatted citation parsing the identified unformatted citation and determining one or more citation terms querying one or more citation libraries to find possible matching citations each possible matching citation comprising at least a portion of the one or more citation terms presenting for selecting a set of possible matching citations and inserting a formatted citation based on a selected one of the set of possible matching citations into the document. In addition the method may provide a hyperlink between an in text citation within the document and a corresponding citation in a bibliography of citations. The document may have multiple sections each section having a separate bibliography of citations and the in text citation may be linked based on the section of text in which it appears and the bibliography associated with that section. The method may include embedding into the document a traveling library comprising citation data that forms the formatted citation inserted into the document. The method may include switching between in text citation formats while preparing the document automatically grouping a set of citations into an organizational group automatically updating the organizational group to include additional citations as citations are inserted in or deleted from the document providing a list of citation references included in the document the list including at least one hyperlink to a source citation reference enabling a user to set format preferences and using the format preferences to generate the formatted citation from the selected possible citation.

In another embodiment the invention provides a computer based system for processing one or more citations within a document. The system includes citation identifying code set adapted to identify an unformatted citation within a document a matching citation code set adapted to access a citation library having stored therein a set of citations and to compare the identified unformatted citation against the citation library to identify a set of citations that potentially match the unformatted citation and an insertion code set adapted to insert a formatted citation into the document based on receiving a selection of one of the set of potentially matching citations.

The present invention provides the following functional features Source application switching Microsoft Word citation import Section bibliographies Composite citations Link from citations to bibliography Generate an organizational group in source reference management application and Manage references from multiple libraries.

More particularly Source application switching provides a method to store an identical reference library in a desktop database and on the Web insert references into a document from either location and seamlessly format and update citations from either source application.

Microsoft Word citation import provides a mechanism to harvest XML citation data inserted into a document by Microsoft Word 2007 or later and to convert this into a preferred predefined or proprietary in document data format.

Section bibliographies provides a mechanism to identify section markers within a document and to create separate bibliographies at the end of each section with or without a complete bibliography at the end of the document.

Composite citations provides a mechanism for treating a group of references as one composite citation grouped together as one entry in a bibliography and distinguished individually by specific alphanumeric labels as specified by a given set of bibliographic formatting rules.

Link from citations to bibliography provides a mechanism for navigating to an entry in a bibliography by clicking on an in text citation which is treated as a hyperlink for this purpose.

Generate an organizational group in source reference management application provides a mechanism to automatically create within the source reference management application an organizational grouping of the references being used in a document which grouping is then updated automatically as references are inserted into the document or deleted from the document.

Manage references from multiple libraries provides support for inserting references into a document from multiple reference libraries and provides a user interface which indicates the source library for each reference and allows the user to update individual references from their source library or to replace a reference with a version from another library.

The present invention will now be described in more detail with reference to exemplary embodiments as shown in the accompanying drawings. While the present invention is described herein with reference to the exemplary embodiments it should be understood that the present invention is not limited to such exemplary embodiments. Those possessing ordinary skill in the art and having access to the teachings herein will recognize additional implementations modifications and embodiments as well as other applications for use of the invention which are fully contemplated herein as within the scope of the present invention as disclosed and claimed herein and with respect to which the present invention could be of significant utility.

As described herein the term item and the terms writing manuscript paper and article shall be understood to refer to hard and soft documents papers writings and other publications and are all meant to each inherently refer to the other terms as the invention is intended to cover all sorts of publications papers writings articles letters editorials books chapters or other kinds of published papers or documents. Part of the information captured for instance in extracting information from an item is the item s bibliography of cited references. Items in such bibliographies may be referred to as reference items . Some reference items may be items captured as a source item but not necessarily.

With reference to various embodiments of the invention are presented. is a block diagram presenting one embodiment of a configuration of the hardware and software components comprising the present invention. A general purpose operating system is provided as a framework for storing data and executing applications as well as policing the flow of input and output. Exemplary general purpose operating systems are Mac OS from Apple Computer Inc. Windows from Microsoft Corp. and various distributions of the Linux and UNIX operating systems.

A computer that comprises one or more microprocessors executes the operating system . When the computer initially boots up instructions are provided from Read Only Memory ROM in order to provide a basic set of input output functionality to the microprocessor . The set of instructions contained in ROM is used by the microprocessor to load the operating system which is typically maintained on a persistent storage device such as a hard drive not pictured . The microprocessor uses Random Access Memory in order to maintain transient storage space that is used by the operating system in addition to other executing application programs e.g. a document rendering application .

An author using the computer executes a document rendering application . According to one embodiment of the invention the document rendering application is a word processor used to draft text and similar mixed media documents such as MICROSOFT WORD . Alternatively the document rendering application may comprise a HTML text editor such as MICROSOFT FRONTPAGE or BBEDIT by Bare Bones Software Inc. Indeed all software systems designed to manipulate and render text data files fall within the scope of the present invention.

Many document rendering applications comprise the capability to expand the functionality of the application through the use of a plug in or similar architecture. The system of present invention comprises a citation editor add in that provides citation processing within the context of the document rendering application . In Microsoft Word a programmer may develop an add in also referred to as a global template to provide generic functionality in the Word environment. For example an add in may contain common tools for working with documents . The author is provided access to functionality of the citation editor add in by clicking graphical toolbar elements and menu commands that the citation editor add in offers. Alternatively the citation editor add in may be a supplemental program that adds custom commands or custom features to an application. It should be noted that the citation editor add in as well as the other components of the present invention may be embodied as software stored on computer readable media that when loaded by a computer instructs the computer to execute the processes described in greater detail herein.

According to one embodiment of the invention the citation editor add in is a COM Component Object Model object designed to be loaded and run in one or more Microsoft Office applications. COM add ins are designed to connect to and disconnect from one or more Office applications using an architecture that is shared between the applications. The citation editor add in may be implemented with any number of programming tools capable of creating DLLs Dynamic Link Libraries .

The citation editor add in provides access to multiple functions related to the creation of citations as well as bibliographies. Exemplary functionality includes the capability to find edit and insert citations access to an external citation application format a bibliography remove specialized field codes from a document and prepare a traveling library for export with the document wherein other authors may have access to the citation reference used to build a citation contained within a document . The citation editor add in also provides instant formatting of citations while an author is drafting a document. According to embodiments of the invention the citation may comprise a graphic such as a drawing or chart that is being cited.

When the document rendering application is executed the citation editor add in is loaded. The citation editor add in implements the menu and toolbar elements which provide communication to the citation application and the document rendering application as required to implement or execute the command selected by the document author. According to one embodiment this communication in implemented by way of COM interfaces exposed by the document rendering application and the citation application by way of a shared library . Furthermore the citation editor add in monitors the document for conditions that require citation processing e.g. the presence of temporary citations.

The shared library may be loaded by the citation application or by the citation editor add in when the document rendering application is initially instantiated. The shared library serves as an intermediary between the citation editor add in and the citation application . Essentially the shared library converts data from an initial format to a format that is native to the citation application . For example where the citation editor add in is implemented as a COM object the shared library translates COM data elements into data elements that adhere to the communication protocol or format that is native to the citation application e.g. provides the COM interface.

The shared library offers an interface to the functionality provided by the citation application which is where application logic executed by the citation editor add in resides. One major function of the citation application is to provide underlying citation data that is used by the citation editor add in to present properly formatted citations within a document . The citation editor add in periodically scans the document e.g. when an idle state is detected due to the fact the author has stopped entering text or commands. According to one embodiment of the invention temporary citations are identified and the citation terms contained within the temporary citation are passed to the citation application via the shared library . Alternatively the author may manually indicate temporary citations for processing on a case by case basis.

Advantageously an author may supply pieces of a citation within a document in an unformatted fashion whereby the citation editor add in in conjunction with the citation application modifies the data to provide a complete formatted citation. The citation editor add in periodically scans the document to identify temporary citations. According to one embodiment the citation editor add in scans the document when an idle period is identified e.g. when the author pauses in the process of editing or entering commands. The citation editor add in in conjunction with the citation application replaces the temporary citation with a properly formatted citation. Furthermore it should be noted that the citation may be used to reference a chart or drawing cited through the use of a temporary citation which may be scanned and formatted by the present invention.

The process of automatically formatting of citations is also referred to as background or instant formatting. It allows an author to always be working with current formatted citations within a document . When an author adds a citation to a document the system and method of the present invention formats the citation in the body of the document and may also append the citation to a bibliography at the end of the document . The process may also be triggered when a new citation is entered or when an existing citation is modified to ensure the citation is correct. According to one embodiment an instant formatting flag is set within the document metadata to instruct the citation editor add in whether instant formatting should be executed. When instant formatting is disabled the author may manually access the citation functionality of the citation application through graphical controls presented by the content editor add in albeit manually.

When scanning the citation editor add in identifies citation delimiters which as a default are represented by curly braces although the author may define a custom set of citation delimiters. Within the citation delimiters are a number of citation terms separated by a term delimiter such as a comma. Accordingly a temporary citation may contain no commas one comma two commas or three or more commas. Semicolons or another suitable delimiter may be used within a set of citation terms to serve as a citation separator so that the search for each citation is executed separately e.g. Smith 1991 Dinosaur Dolphin. The citation editor add in scans the document and identifies citations entered into the document by the author. The terms within the term delimiters are parsed into one or more citation terms and passed to the citation application by way of the shared library which converts data into the native format of the citation application . The citation application analyzes the received terms to identify the presence of term delimiters commas and citation delimiters semicolons . Where commas are utilized to delimit terms strict resolution is utilized. For example the citation Smith Jones 1998 March Dinosaur extinction is resolved as if each of the terms is enclosed by quotation marks as is well 5 known to those of skill in the art. Alternatively where one or more terms are supplied e.g. Smith Jones 1998 March Dinosaur extinction the citation is resolved by supplying a Boolean AND between each of the terms and identifying citations comprising all of the terms. The citation application s analysis results in the formulation of a citation query.

The citation application uses the citation query to query one or more citation libraries and . The citation libraries and may be accessed over a network which may be a local or wide area network such as an intranet or the Internet. As is explained in greater detail herein a local database not pictured may be maintained comprising selected citations chosen by the author obviating the need to access the remote sources and . Each citation library and comprises one or more citations for references appearing in one or more journals.

Host data files may be provided indicating the address of remote citation libraries such as university card catalogs the Library of Congress specialized databases such as PubMed PsycINFO and ERIC from popular providers such as Ovid Technologies SilverPlatter and OCLC. Typically the citation library comprises a database manager that accepts the citation query searches the citations contained within the library and and returns a result set comprising citations falling within the scope of the citation query. The citation query may preferably be submitted simultaneously to a plurality of citation libraries and .

The result set is returned to the citation application . Where the result set comprises only one citation e.g. a definitive match was found to the query the citation that the author wishes to insert into the document is identified. The citation data is passed to the citation editor add in via the shared library for insertion into the document . Field codes that references citation data are inserted into the document which may be stored in local or remote citation libraries maintained by the user or a third party data provider. The field codes are links to underlying citation data that is used as a source for the formatted citation displayed in the document.

In displaying the formatted citation the format defined through the field codes may be set by author defined parameters. Various scholarly journals have different constraints regarding the formatting requirement for citations. For example the Journal of the American Medical Association may require that citations adhere to a first format while the journal Science may require a wholly different citation format. The system of the present invention may advantageously be supplied with citation format parameters for well known journals and publications. In this manner an author may ensure that citations within a document adhere to a target publication s citation specifications simply by selecting the publication through an interface whereby the parameters are automatically set. Alternatively or in combination the author may override anyone or more citation format parameters to set a desired value. Furthermore functionality is provided whereby an author may change the target publication for a document causing the software to traverse the document and modify the format of the citations contained therein to adhere to the new target publication s citation specifications.

Another feature offered by the system and method of the present invention is a traveling library . The author may export a traveling library whereby the field codes are used to embed data regarding the reference into the document. When the document is accessed by a collaborator that does not have access to the same citation libraries and the reference data can be found and the full citation and reference are provided when the file is loaded into a document rendering program thereby obviating the need to manually locate the citations again using the citation application to recreate the libraries used by their collaborators. Furthermore where a collaborator uses additional libraries to insert citations within the document these may be exported and passed back to the original author who has access to the full set of citation data.

Where background citation scanning is enabled step the document is scanned to identify unformatted citations or citations that have been formatted but subsequently modified step . Identifying citations that have been modified after being formatted may be accomplished in a number of ways. For example a data file may be maintained where the citation editor add in compiles a listing of all formatted citations in a given document. Each time the document is scanned the citation editor add in compares the formatted citations in the document with the previously formatted citations contained in the data file to determine if any formatted citations have been subsequently modified. Alternatively the citation editor add in may set a flag each time a citation is formatted which is removed if a formatted citation is subsequently modified. When scanning the citation editor add in checks the formatting of all previously formatted citations where the flag has been removed.

According to embodiments of the invention the step of scanning the document is performed when an idle state is identified during the process of entering text or commands. The citation terms supplied by the author is parsed determining the citation terms and any term delimiters that may be present in the citation to prepare a citation query that is executed at one or more citation libraries step . The result of the query are returned and analyzed to determine the number of records contained within the result set. A check is performed to determine if an exact match was identified as falling within the scope of the citation query step .

Where an exact match has been found identifying a citation in one of the citation libraries step field codes identifying the citation are inserted into the document providing a view to the citation data contained within the sole record in the result set step . Where the result set comprises multiple records however a display is presented to the author presenting a listing of the citations that fall within the scope of the citation query step . Using an input device the author selects the citation that he or she wishes to appear in the document step . Field codes identifying the citation are inserted into the document to provide a view to the citation data contained within the selected record from the result set step .

A check is performed to determine if additional unformatted or modified citations are present in the document step . Where additional citations that require formatting are present in the document processing returns to step where a citation query comprising citations terms from the outstanding citation is formulated and executed against one or more citation libraries as per steps and . Where all the citations are processed the document is refreshed whereby the field codes present formatted citation data to the author step . According to embodiments of the invention the process is repeated step and at regular intervals e.g. when and idle period is encountered.

One embodiment of an interface for reviewing citations retrieved from citations libraries as falling within the scope of the citation query through operation of the process presented in is illustrated in . A search term field is presented wherein citation terms forming the citation query are presented to the author. In this manner the author is provided with the context of the present query. According to embodiments of the invention the author may modify the citation terms here and execute the modified citation query against the citation library. Below the search terms is the result set which comprises citation records that fall within the scope of the citation query. Using an input device the author may select a citation from the result set to review the citation data.

The citation data is presented in a frame occupying the lower half of the interface. The citation data comprises detailed information regarding the reference that forms the basis for the citation including but not limited to the reference type author year of publication title of the reference and publication as well as other miscellaneous information. Advantageously the citation data may further comprise an abstract providing a brief summary or overview of the substance of the reference. This information is useful to an author in determining if a particular reference is the source of the intended citation.

The ambiguous citation currently being analyzed by the software of the present invention may be acted on by selection of one of the provided interface controls. Using an input device the author may select on of the citations in the result set for insertion into the document. Selection of the insert control inserts the selected citation into the document. Alternatively the author may choose to ignore the current citation or ignore all of the unformatted citations contained within the document. Likewise the citation formatting process may be canceled . A control is also provided that allows access to a help system that provides answers to questions an author might have regarding operation of the invention.

As described above authors may compile selected citation data into a local database imbedded within the document in order to enable others to work with properly formatted citations in the document. The process of exporting a traveling library is presented in . Using an input device the author selects a control provided by the citation editor add in that executes the export process step . In response to the author command the software presents an export traveling library dialog box step . Using the interface presented by the dialog box the author may set preferences regarding the manner in which export is performed.

A check is performed to determine whether the author is creating a new citation library in the citation application or adding to an existing library step . Where the author is attempting to export a new citation library in the citation application step a check is performed to determine if the field codes are still contained within the document step . If the author removes the field codes and replaces them with plain text the software is unable to invoke export functionality and an error message is presented to the author indicating that the export operation has failed step . Where the software is able to detect the field codes in the document that comprises the citations a citation library in the citation application comprising the citation data for all the citations contained within the document step .

Where the author is attempting to export citation data to an existing citation library in the citation application step a check is performed to determine if the field codes are still contained within the document step . If the author removes the field codes and replaces them with plain text the software is unable to invoke export functionality and an error message is presented to the author indicating that the export operation has failed step . According to one embodiment of the invention selection of a graphical control provided by the software of the present invention is operative to replace the field codes in the document with the plain text to which the field codes link. Alternatively the field codes may be manually removed by the author and replaced with the plain text to which the field codes link.

Where the software is able to detect the field codes in the document that comprises the citations additional selected citation data is added to the citation library in the citation application that was previously embedded into the document step . Regardless of whether the author is creating a new citation library in the citation application or adding to an existing one program flow is consolidated at step where the software refreshes the document to reflect any changes made by the operation.

The software and methods presented here may also be used to automatically generate a formatted bibliography from citations that are added to a document as illustrated in . One embodiment of the bibliography generation process begins when the author selects a control presented by the citation editor add in that executes the bibliography functionality step . The author is provided an opportunity to define one or more preferences regarding the output style that the bibliography will take step . For example bibliography preferences include but are not limited to font style size indentations starting number for the bibliography etc. Alternatively bibliography preferences are set before hand by the author and the software simply reads the defined preferences from a data file at step .

The software scans the document to determine if citations exist that are awaiting formatting step . Where unformatted citations are present in a document a citation list is presented to the author step . Using an input device the author selects the appropriate reference that is associated with the citation supplied by the user. Program flow returns to step where another check is performed for unformatted citations. That process is repeated for all unformatted citations. Alternatively a process analogous to steps and presented in are executed for each of the unformatted citations contained within the document in place of the process of step . All of the citations in the document are properly formatted and the software inserts the citations into a bibliography step . It should be clear

to one skilled in the art that this process may easily be modified to provide for dynamic updating of the bibliography as new citations are supplied or existing citations are editing which is considered within the scope of the present invention.

Additionally an author may edit selected citations that have previously been inserted into a document and formatted as presented by the method of . An author is provided with graphical controls by the citation editor that supply assistance with the citation editing process which is selected by the author to being the editing process step . The citation editor add in transmits a citation edit request to the citation application which is translated into the native format of the citation application by the shared library. In response to the request the citation application prepares a listing of all citations contained within the document for presentation to the author by the citation add in step . Using an input device the author may supply changes to one or more of the citations in the document. According to one embodiment of the invention an interface similar to that presented in is supplied whereby the author is presented with all references that matched the previously supplied citation terms and given an opportunity to modify the citation terms associated with one or more selected citations. Regardless of the method used to receive citation edits the edits are submitted by way of the shared library to the citation application for recordation step which may also include modifying the citation list and field codes in the document to reflect the edits supplied by the author step .

The present invention provides valuable functionality to insert notes into documents one embodiment of a method for providing such functionality is presented in . When required by a given journal for example Science the author selects a graphical control provided by the citation editor add in to insert a note step . In response a note insertion dialog box is presented to the author . The author submits the text of the note into the note insertion dialog box and when complete selects a graphical submission control step . The document is refreshed to display the note in the document step . Advantageously controls are supplied or parameters may be set through which the author may indicate the precise position within the document where the note should appear.

As previously indicated an author may elect to use a local citation library in addition or opposed to one or more remote libraries. One embodiment of a method for editing references contained in a local citation library is presented in . It should be noted however as it is assumed that the author has editing privileges on the local citation library that the method of is likewise applicable to remote citation libraries where the author has editing privileges.

In order to edit a reference the author must select a document or subset thereof step . The minimum acceptable subset of the document is an individual citation. Using graphical controls supplied by the citation editor add in the author selects a control to edit the selected references step . Citation data e.g. information comprising a reference for each of the citations present in the selected document or portion thereof is presented to the user step . According to one embodiment the data is presented in a list format.

Using the graphical interface the author selects references and makes the required edits step . The author may sequentially edit multiple references. The completed edits are saved to the citation library which may be local or remote so long as the author has editing privileges on the citation library. The document is refreshed to present changes to the citations contained therein based on the edits made to the underlying references step .

Turning to a process is presented that allows an author to insert a graphic from a publication such as a chart or diagram into a document. Using the graphical interface provided by the citation editor add in the author selects a graphical control to insert a figure or diagram from a publication into the document step . In response to the selection of the control the citation editor add in presents an insert figure dialog box step . Using the graphical controls presented via the dialog box the author enters one or more parameters identifying the desired figure. For example the author may supply a publication an author an article title publication date or other data that may uniquely identify the desired figure.

Using the data regarding the desired figure that is supplied by the author a figure query is prepared that is used to search one or more citation libraries for the desired figure step . A result set comprising figures contained within the citation databases that fall within the scope of the figure query is presented to the user step . Using an input device the author selects that appropriate figure from the list of presented figures. The selected figure is inserted into the document and presented to the author step . Alternatively the figure parameters may be supplied as a temporary citation and automatically formatted according to the process presented in .

With reference to an authoring submission and validation system includes a word processing application e.g. EndNote using EndNote XML reference mark up for preparing structured formatted documents. The software application is used to format the Microsoft Word document by identifying and tagging data contained in the document prior to submission to a publisher. For instance documents may be marked or tagged using by way of example only and not limitation processes based on GML SGML or XML. By marking or tagging the document to create a structured document e.g. using GML SGML or XML based mark up the cited references may be more easily extracted from the document and included in a reference list for validation. SGML Standard Generalized Markup Language is a generic markup language used to represent documents in content and structure. SGML identifies document elements such as titles paragraphs tables and chapters as distinct objects and allows users to define relationships defined in a Document Type Definition DTD between objects for structuring data in documents. SGML may be compared with SQL standard language for creating updating and querying relational database management systems in that SGML document elements and structure are analogous to a collection of field definitions in a database. SGML enables users to structure information in documents in an open fashion to permit access and reuse by any SGML aware application across multiple platforms. Once converted into SGML the document has tagged information and becomes a database like document that may be searched printed and processed by SGML aware applications in an open fashion. Extensible Markup Language XML a simplified dialect of SGML is a markup language for representing documents and is suitable for use on the World Wide Web WWW . XML provides a relationship between a document s content and embedded structure and a way to share document based information across applications and platforms. Structured information may have multiple components e.g. words and pictures and include indications as to what the content represents e.g. title section heading footnote endnote reference caption and database table .

In keeping with the invention a structured document may be formatted according to specific bibliographic style using application functions. For instance the EndNote Tool Bar may be invoked to call up APIs application programming interfaces of MS Word hidden code fields. The structured Word document may be loaded or uploaded into a work flow system e.g. Manuscript Central that is in communication with a database . The system includes software for recognizing the structured document as being formatted in a particular way e.g. EndNote then it may pull or extract the references contained in the document using means for parsing the data using a reference XML e.g. EndNote XML reference. For example the cited references may be parsed from the document and included in a reference list for validation. System preferably is capable of recognizing multiple formats and extracting references structured in a variety of formats. For those documents that are not structured prior to the validation process a manual operation or software aided operation may be applied to a document to identify and extract cited references or portions of text. Once the reference data is extracted or otherwise placed in a condition for comparison one or more database links are established to compare the extracted reference data against valid reference data contained in the one or more external database e.g. WoS. Database serves as an authority database containing verified and reliable reference data. Rather than establishing a link to an external authority database a reliable database may be present local to the work flow system e.g. database .

The system may apply an automated process to parse out data to be validated from documents that are structured and that have metadata tags that identify the cited references. In the extraction process the parser preferably recognizes or has access to the one or more formatting syntax e.g. EndNote reference XML used to code or format the document by the application and is capable of identifying those fields in the document that are associated with a cited reference or other field of interest. The system may include parsing options to select a parser or a parser set up appropriate for the source of the document or the source of the formatting. Also journals or other publishers may require submitting authors to submit papers pre formatted using a particular reference management mark up strategy.

Now with reference to the validation process generally referenced as may be carried out prior to submission by author validation and or it may be carried out after submission by publisher editor validation . In the author validation process initial review and validation is carried out by the author prior to manuscript submission . Author validation may be followed by secondary review and validation by a production editor or other actor associated with the publisher post submission. In the Editor validation process the submitted document is reviewed and validated by a production or copy editor. Ideally journals and other publishers would prefer authors to perform the initial validation as essentially validating the manuscript s cited references prior to submission. However cost and difficulty associated with parsing cited references into XML at the submission stage may deter authors from taking on this added burden. In addition a publisher may desire to retain the practice of using a typesetter to markup references. However as more effective author tools become widely available and used and as the creation submission and validation processes become more integrated and or open the many benefits automated validation has to offer are likely to outweigh and supplant prior practices.

Referring to the following major components comprise the author validation system . A reference management module or service e.g. EndNote may be used to produce a structured document with tagged references prior to submission . Alternatively third party XML production software and services may be used to automate the markup process. Extraction based on the XML production software used and the tagging format occurs pre submission to allow author validation. At article submission block the document structured or not may be handled in either of two ways. The document may be passed directly on for peer review and decision at block and then submitted to a publisher at Production block without pre submission author validation. Alternatively for self validation by the author the document may be processed by XML data extraction block . The cited reference data may be extracted using a number of different methods including EndNote reference XML for a document formatted using the EndNote process. Also a software module may process the document to identify references and extract them into XML. In one manner the extracted reference data is compiled into a reference list. Reference lists may be held in detailed and standardized XML. Getting the reference list into XML may be dependent upon the markup language used to produce the structured document. Tables 1 and 2 below depict an excerpt from a document marked up using EndNote Reference XML. Table 1 shows the excerpted text without the mark ups and Table 2 shows the same excerpted text with mark ups.

Preferably the XML extraction block is configured to recognize and process documents marked up in multiple formats and to accommodate documents from a variety of reference management software or XML production software. In this manner the system facilitates a range of client needs and does not require the client to abandon elements of their workflow. The extracted reference data output from block is compared against an authority database at Reference Search on Database block which may involve online access to one or more authority databases and then the validation results of the comparison are presented to the author user via Author reference validation block . The author user may then take action based on the results including submitting the paper with the results to the publisher. One goal is to have the validation process recognized within the publishing industry so that a favorable validation report would amount to a seal of approval widely accepted by publishers such that a high level of reliance is placed on the results and additional manual or automated validation is not required by the publisher.

The validation results may include confirmation of correct references validated as having actual papers corresponding to the cited reference data. The system can give an indication of verification identify which references have or have not been validated delineate the data or fields in the cited reference or document that appear to be incorrect and suggest closely matching reference data as a substitute or correction for the erroneous data. The system can also include hyperlinks for example associated with the cited references to directly link the results page with the actual confirmed reference or a suggested reference. The system can also give authors the ability to revise edit or correct cited reference data and resubmit for further validation. The invention is not limited to validating authors citations dates etc. and can be used to validate any feature appearing in a cited reference or even a paper for which there is a corresponding authority database against which the data may be compared. For example if an author claims to be a Fellow or Member of a society e.g. IEEE or a member of the faculty of a school or in a chaired position for example then as long as the system has access to an authority database of membership data for that society or faculty the information from the paper or other document may be extracted marked up or otherwise and may be compared against the database and the data validated. In addition these processes may be used to validate that the paper has not previously been published. As part of the process a user can select from a list of databases against which the validation process is to be performed or the system may default to a predefined set of one or more databases. Exemplary databases for use with the present invention include public reference databases e.g. CrossRef and National Library of Medicine NLM PubMed commercial databases e.g. ISI Web of Science WoS ISI Web of Knowledge WoK and BIOSIS and privately held specialized and other databases including Dialog library Online Public Access Catalogues OPACs Medline ProQuest Ovid Ebsco and WilsonWeb and similar reference databases.

In the event a document is not author self validated and is merely passed on to the publisher for Editor Validation via Production block then the publisher may validate the cited references contained in the submitted document. XML data extraction block works essentially the same as corresponding block previously described in the author validation process . In addition to the EndNote reference management software and third party software previously discussed publishers often use typesetters to extract reference data. This option is reflected in block . The extracted reference data from block is compared against an authority database at Reference Search on Database block as previously described for block and then the validation results of the comparison are presented to the editor user via Editor reference validation block . Alternatively the paper may be submitted along with a list of references or the list may be submitted apart from the paper and the list may be processed for validation. In addition to the description of the comparison results and actions above the publisher editor may send some or all of the results back to the author or to another for follow up e.g. correction or further verification.

Preferably reference databases used for validation are local or available via the Internet or other communications network to allow the Author Validation and Editor Validation processes to search on them. Traffic requirements are likely to be significant as for example using an average 60 80 references per article times 1 800 articles per day yields on the order of 100 000 to 150 000 requests per day. User interfaces UI support the validation task of reviewing reference matches and indicating which matches are correct and which are not. Two exemplary versions of UIs are author UI and editor UI. As part of the author pre submission process reference management process or author validation process or as part of the editor validation process metadata tagging or links e.g. DOIs digital object identifiers or URLs may be inserted or validated to provide or confirm cross publisher database linking imbedded in the final paper or bibliography. Other elements associated with the validation process include search logic for reference retrieval from database.

Now with reference to another depiction of a submission and validation process is shown in which block represents a pre publication raw reference list that is input to and processed at block wherein the references are extracted to XML. After the reference list is extracted into XML the references are compared at block against one or more authority databases e.g. WoS WoK PubMed OPACs and CrossRef. Next the results of the reference comparison are presented for further validation as represented at block . After the final validation by the author editor the validated references or list of references in XML are included in the article manuscript metadata at block . At this point the document is ready for submission to a publisher if author validated or ready for publishing if editor validated .

With respect to block the references or reference list may be extracted to XML consistent with one or more reference management module structured format or service utilized. For instance a paper and reference list prepared using EndNote would rely on an EndNote data extraction . Alternatively third party XML production software and services may be used for XML tagging . As relates to the publisher perspective a third party typesetter may be used to convert the cited reference data to XML structured format as represented at block .

The extracted reference data from block is compared against one or more authority database at Reference Search on Database block . The reference databases used for validation may be local or available via the Internet or other communications network and as described elsewhere herein. Exemplary databases for use with the present invention include public reference databases e.g. CrossRef and PubMed commercial reference databases e.g. Web of Science WoS Web of Knowledge WoK and BIOSYS and privately held specialized reference databases . Other exemplary databases include Medline ProQuest Ovid Ebsco and WilsonWeb.

With respect to Reference Validation block the validation results of the comparison block are presented to the author editor user for examination and or for taking action based on the results. User interfaces as described above and generally known may be used as part of Author validation tool and or Editor validation tool . Author action may include submitting the paper with the results to the publisher. Editor action may include approving the paper for publication or returning the results to the author for correction or explanation. Action may also include confirmation of correct references validated as having actual published papers corresponding to the cited reference data.

After reference validation the validated references or list of references in XML may be included in the article manuscript metadata at block . With respect to author validation the article manuscript with tagged XML references may be submitted to a publisher for acceptance or further validation such as for quality assurance by the publisher. With respect to editor publisher validation the article with tagged references is ready for approval and publishing at least with respect to having a validated set of references cited in the paper.

With reference to a dual path flow chart is provided that illustrates one exemplary embodiment of a reference validation process using the present invention. As shown reference validation process may be initiated by an author at who may upload a manuscript structured for example using EndNote to a central service for example Manuscript Central for reference validation prior to submission to a publisher. Alternatively a publisher may initiate the process at post submission and in the production phase prior to publication. Other than the initial steps of and which is directed to the source of the paper and the entity performing the reference validation the remaining steps are essentially the same for both paths. Depending on whether an author has conducted an initial validation process or submits the paper or reference list in a recognized structured form e.g. EndNote or in an extracted condition some of the steps may not be necessary for the editor.

At step references are or a reference list is extracted from the document into XML preferably based on a known and recognized format structure. At step each extracted reference is validated against a set of one or more external databases such as journal configured database. At step validation results are presented to authors and or editors and may include references which have high similarity matches step and references having multiple or low similarity matches at step presented for confirmation by the author or editor. At step results of author verification selection are passed back into the XML reference set.

With reference to one exemplary embodiment of a Content Management System CMS referenced generally with reference number includes a Distinct Author Identification System DAIS also referred to as an Author Disambiguation System a source of information e.g. databases and software and processor driven user productivity suite a plurality of remote users or clients and various communications links. CMS enables users to search for identify and access items such as papers and other publications by certain attributes associated with those items. For instance a typical user search is based on author name often and only includes author last name and perhaps first and middle initials. This abbreviated and non unique author information does not uniquely identify the author from the universe of author names contained in the source or database. The purpose of DAIS is to disambiguate records stored in source to among other things identify distinct authors assign author identifiers ids to them and tag their authorships with their author ids to facilitate such searching by users .

In this exemplary embodiment of the sources available for searching include the WoS Database the WoK Database and a general reference to other databases of interest such as OPAC CrossRef and PubMed databases and others mentioned herein for example. The DAIS communicates with stores via a communications link and captures and uses for disambiguation processes instances of all or portions of such databases. The DAIS applies the DAIS rules and processes referenced generally by reference number against the records stored in such databases to arrive at accurate relational links and clusters of links to properly associate with author entities.

For purposes of explaining the overall process and not by way of limitation to the invention the WoS DB for example is an XML database that spans a range of years of data including scientific papers and citations associated therewith. The WoS DB instance used by DAIS is separate from the WoS DB which may be used by WoS customers and which is kept for independent and unaltered research testing or various special processing. There are two principal unit records in this database. They are source item and reference item .

Once the DAIS has applied its processes against and across the database instances from sources it may load onto such databases and the disambiguated records and data as a way to improve the integrity of the information stored in such databases and for subsequent use by users. For instance users such as remote users and others may invoke productivity solutions such as Thomson Scientific s ResearchSoft suite in carrying out the business of science and research and in authoring works associated with those efforts. These productivity tools may be desktop based network based or a combination thereof and may be involved in the process of creating a manuscript for publication. For example the user may use EndNote and other productivity tools to create a structured document using XML references which may be validated e.g. by comparing against sources . Also such productivity tools may be used by administrators such as faculty and university administration in conducting the business of the institutions for example in reviewing the work of faculty up for tenure and under review including checking the validity of cited references contained in papers authored by a faculty member under review. Researchers may keep a personal reference collection of works of their own of works relied on and referenced in their works and of works of interest in their particular fields of study.

The invention as described herein in the various embodiments provides one or more of the following features. Find and insert citations which provides a user interface to search for references from a reference library and insert them in a document. Format citations which format a document s inserted references to provide both an in text citation and a bibliography formatted according to a specific set of rules. Scan for temporary citations Instant Formatting which provides a background scan detects and parses temporary citations expressed using a specified syntax looks them up in a reference library and inserts and formats matching references. Traveling Library which stores reference data as field codes within a document allowing further formatting without needing to re locate the references in an external library. These references can also be exported to a new reference library. Formatting Preferences which provides a user interface to allow users to customize CWYW behavior. Local vs. online reference library with which references can be looked up in a library on the user s machine or in a database hosted on a network or on the Internet. Resolving ambiguous citations which provides a user interface to allow the user to select from among two or more references that match a search query or a temporary citation. Editing citations which provides a mechanism to edit citations so as to fine tune their formatted appearance or update reference data. Inserting notes which provides a mechanism for inserting notes into a document. Inserting figures which provides a mechanism for inserting figures and captions into a document. Output styles which provides a mechanism for encapsulating each set of formatting rules associated for instance with individual publications or professional organizations within an individual file that can be used by the formatting tool. Remove field codes which provides a mechanism for removing all supporting data reference data stored in field codes etc. from a document leaving only the formatted references and author s document content.

Still further the invention in the various embodiments may provide the following set of features. Source application or reference library switching which provides a mechanism to insert and format citations from any of two or more identical reference libraries for instance one on a local desktop and one on the Web . This enables users to store an identical reference library in a desktop database and on the Web and insert references into a document from either location. This mechanism has the further advantage of seamlessly format and update citations from either source application. Microsoft Word citation import which provides a mechanism to harvest citation data including XML citation data inserted into a document by a built in word processor functionality e.g. Microsoft Word 2007 or later and to convert this into an in document data format. Section bibliographies which provides a mechanism to identify section markers within a document and to create separate bibliographies at the end of each section with or without a complete bibliography at the end of the document. Composite citations which provide a mechanism for treating a group of references as one composite citation grouped together as one entry in a bibliography and distinguished individually by specific alphanumeric labels as specified by a given set of bibliographic formatting rules. Link from citations to bibliography which provides a mechanism for navigating to an entry in a bibliography by clicking on an in text citation e.g. its citation in the body of a document which may be treated as a hyperlink for this purpose. Generate an organizational group in source reference management application which provides a mechanism to automatically create within the source reference management application an organizational grouping of the references being used in a document which grouping is then updated automatically as references are inserted into the document or deleted from the document. Manage references from multiple libraries which provides a mechanism to allow and support inserting references into a document from multiple reference libraries and provides a user interface which indicates the source library for each reference and allows the user to update individual references from their source library or to replace a reference with a version from another reference library. Fast switching between in text citation formats which is a mechanism for quickly switching between two or more available formats for an individual in text citation without requiring document to be reformatted.

More particularly the invention provides enhanced cite while you write authoring tools functionality. For instance the system provides for automatic hyper linking between in text citation and bibliography. The user will be able to add the ability for in text citations to be linked to the reference in the bibliography. This gives users the ability to easily navigate between their citations and their bibliographies while writing and editing. Many publishers add links into the documents during the publication markup. Authors lack such tools during the writing and review process. This feature integrates this process and benefits both authors and editors allowing for much easier correspondence between the parts of the document. This feature will also be useful for less formal documents reports research notes etc. This would enable the ability for users to click ctrl Click from an in text citation directly to the corresponding bibliography entry. In one manner this feature is applied when a Word document is converted to PDF by using the following Word 2007 s native support for Save As . . . PDF and the official Microsoft Plug in Adobe Acrobat Pro version 8 9 and 10 Macintosh info Built in OS PDF save function Adobe Pro for Mac Built in Preview app for reading.

If there are multiple bibliographies it is appropriate to have a citation link just to the appearance of the citation in the section being worked on. For instance if there are multiple bibliographies in the document at the end of each chapter and end of the document then in text citations are linked to the reference at the end of the section chapter. For grouped citations each author date or numbered citation should link to each distinct bibliography entry.

For numbered ranges the link is to the first one in the range. For grouped citations each author date or numbered citation should link to each distinct bibliography entry. For composites the link is to the main number. With reference to a dialog screen serving as a user interface is shown with selected tab Format Bibliography. For this dialog a user can select in this example the format document and the desired output style e.g. Annotated Chicago etc. The user can select or turn on the hyper linking in the Format Bibliography dialog. Additional options are for the in text citations to be underlined and hover text to display the full citation as it appears in the bibliography. By default the link in text citations feature is on and with underline turned on. If linking in text citations is not selected then the options to underline is not available. Citation delimiters may be selected and the formatting of the hyperlink may be in a preference setting where the user can for example determine whether hyperlinked text should be colored or underlined. The setting may be on a per document basis or may be by groupings. An exemplary set of preferences is displayed in the Format Bibliography dialog of . shows an example of a grouped citation in author date format.

With reference to for numbered citations the number e.g. highlighted 14 links to the citation Argus 1991 in the bibliography. For numbered ranges link the first one in the range. So if the range is x y x y is linked and the link will go to reference x. For example for the following in text citation . . . as shown by the Berkeley studies conducted in 1987and 1989 the 1987in text citation will link to the 3rd reference in the bibliography. Note for 1989 the 1 links to the 1reference and the 7 links to the 7th reference in the bibliography. For composite references the link goes to the main number. For example 1a 1b links to the composite citation referenced by 1 in the bibliography. Furthermore 3a 3b 7c e has two links the first to the composite citation referenced by 3 in the bibliography and the second to the composite citation referenced by 7 in the bibliography.

An additional function may be included to assist users in manipulating references used or included in documents e.g. MS Word document this embodiment provides users a snapshot of the references that they re currently using. This allows them to verify which references they are using against other references in the user s library and or the user s traveling library. An additional function may be added e.g. in EndNote authoring tool to create an easily readable report of the citations and the count for number of times they are used from a given document.

An additional function may be included to provide users an easily readable live report or list of references included in a document. For instance a UI may be included e.g. in OpenOffice to enhance the user experience. The document is formatted and should be updated on reformatting. The function preferably shows which library the references come from and preferably includes the ability to link directly to the source reference in the authoring application e.g. EndNote and the ability to link to the first appearance of a reference in the word processor. The report may include the number of times a reference is used in a document. A similar function may be provided e.g. go to endnote button to allow a user to go directly to the report. The list view preferably includes all references in the document and a smart group may be provided to show only those references found in the open library. The auto group is preferably removed when closing the associated Word document. Multiple auto groups associated with multiple Word documents are supported up to for example a group limit e.g. 500 .

An additional function may be included to add Document Title DocumentTitle.doc including file extension Reference Report. This function provides users a clear and simple list of references used in a given Word document. For example in EndNote a user may create an auto group of References used in Word Document. The document auto group may be session based depending on the authoring tool application e.g. EndNote.

One exemplary workflow is as follows. A single user writing a paper using Word and EndNote navigating back and forth between the two applications has the need to see a quick and simple list of references inserted into the current paper only. This user also has the need to know more detailed information in a list display e.g. the number of times a reference was used. The user will likely also have further need to edit modify these references and it would be convenient for them to access these editing features easily from the basic list display. Much of this editing will be done in Word but the user will likely need to edit some items in EndNote too.

Another exemplary workflow is as follows. A user is collaborating with another author co author on a common document using Word and EndNote. The authors transfer the common document back and forth both inserting references from EndNote from each author s respective libraries. This may be so even though they have most of their references in common. In several places in the common document they have both added the same reference from their respective libraries. For final editing the user may double check all of the references that he and the co author have inserted and make sure that they match the ones that are in the user s master library. Much of the final editing may be done in Word but the user will likely need to edit some items in the authoring application e.g. EndNote too. Because the authors have processed many edits the user will likely need to make sure that all the references the authors originally wanted to use are in the final paper. The Traveling Library function used in the workflow may include a record number of references that is different than an otherwise identical reference in each author s respective library. The function allows users the ability to know the source of the references a specific library name or the Traveling Library and to easily substitute the record from the author library without having to search through the whole document to do this.

With reference to the Cite While You Write application provides an Edit Manage Citations dialog UI screen that integrates the author reference tracking functions described herein. The Edit Manage Citations function is deployed with a main table with reference information region including citation groups comprising citations and Edit Reference buttons and resulting pull down listing . When a user clicks on a reference the background document will go to that reference. This provides the in text context. If there are many references the panel will have a scrollbar. The table has four columns as described below. Citation displays a representation of the citation reference in the form 

The Edit Library Reference option functions similarly to the main part of the button . Edit Library Reference may be made available only for citations for which the library is not Traveling Library. The Remove Citation option removes the highlighted citation from the list of citations. The Insert Citation option displays the Find Citations dialog and adds a citation within the same set of delimiters. The Edit Manage Citations dialog and the Word document are updated with the new citation. The Update from My Library option serves to update the user s library of references.

Edit Manage Citations dialog UI screen includes Bottom panel . The Edit Citation tab contains similar formatting features included in the Edit Citation dialog discussed above. The Exclude Author box may be selected to omit the author name from the highlighted citation. The Exclude Year box may be selected to omit the year from the highlighted citation. The Prefix field allows entry of text to be printed immediately before the citation text spaces are significant . The Suffix field allows entry of text to be printed immediately after the citation text spaces are significant .

A user may enter page numbers in the field if desired to always print page numbers after the citation and always with the same punctuation. Otherwise the Pages field is used to enter page numbers to be printed as part of the citation. To display and print the Cited Pages field must be listed in the Citations Template or Footnotes Template of your Output Style. Putting page numbers here allows you to change for each Output Style both the placement of page numbers and their surrounding punctuation in the citation. The Reference tab displays the data for the selected reference in the upper panel in tagged format. The Tools Button offers three functions Export Traveling Library Update Citations and Bibliography and Format Bibliography. The Update Citations and Bibliography option either formats the bibliography for the first time or reformats the bibliography. The Format Bibliography option brings up the Format Bibliography dialog e.g. .

With reference to the Export Traveling Library option opens the Export Traveling Library dialog where the user selects the destination library e.g. Sample Library X3. The references can be imported into an existing open library as shown or a new library. If the user selects an existing library duplicate references will be discarded based on the duplication preferences. Bottom panel also includes a Totals region which represents and displays the number of Citation Groups in text citations and references in the bibliography.

With reference to an auto group is created when the Word document is created. The document name will be used as the name of the auto group. Upon closing the document the auto group is removed. Upon reformatting the document the auto group is updated. Auto groups may be session based. Upon closing the authoring application e.g. EndNote the auto group is not displayed unless the document is also open.

With reference to an enhanced feature provides users with the ability to rapidly switch between in text citation formats. The Insert menu options includes a number of options directed to allow users to select a preferred manner of inserting citations. The options are shown in the Insert pulldown menu but may also be included in the find and insert option in the edit and manage citations option and as an option available when right clicking on a citation and selecting the edit citation option. The Insert option enables a user to insert a citation. Upon selecting the Insert and Display as Author Year option the citation will display when formatted as Author Year unless a style is selected and the format does not conform to stylistic rules. For instance if a citation is inserted in APA with insert and exclude author year then nothing is shown. When a selected format does not comply with the formatting rules for a style the citation may not appear. If the style is changed to a style that does comply with the rules of the style then the citation will appear. For example a citation inserted with the option insert and exclude author year will appear in numbered format but will not appear in APA 6th sections . When authoring a document a user inserts a citation using the standard in text citation format e.g. The results show that the sun is very hot Smith 2010 . The user then wants to insert another citation e.g. According to Jones 2010 the sun is very bright. This feature allows this insert treatment for any author date style similar to use for the existing Insert options to omit author date information.

The present invention is not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments described herein It is fully contemplated that other various embodiments of and modifications to the present invention in addition to those described herein will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from the foregoing description and accompanying drawings. Thus such other embodiments and modifications are intended to fall within the scope of the following appended claims. Further although the present invention has been described herein in the context of particular embodiments and implementations and applications and in particular environments those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that its usefulness is not limited thereto and that the present invention can be beneficially applied in any number of ways and environments for any number of purposes. Accordingly the claims set forth below should be construed in view of the full breadth and spirit of the present invention as disclosed herein.

