---

title: Supervisory communication system
abstract: A method may include identifying diverse applications associated with supervision of agent work stations. The method may include generating a unified view interface based on supervisory communications associated with the diverse applications and receiving a request for the unified view interface from a supervisory interface device. The method may include exporting the unified view interface to the supervisory interface device. The method may further include receiving notifications associated with the diverse applications, and sending the notifications to the supervisory interface device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09467565&OS=09467565&RS=09467565
owner: VERIZON PATENT AND LICENSING INC.
number: 09467565
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140602
---
Companies often use call centers to address customer inquiries take customer orders and or resolve customer problems. Interactive voice response IVR systems are frequently used to initially interact with the caller to obtain information regarding the call. The call is then often transferred to a device associated with a human agent to service the customer inquiry and provide the desired assistance. Multiple agents may be supervised by a particular supervisor. The supervisor may assign tasks and monitor the agents for compliance with tasks and goals in the call center.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

Systems and or methods described herein may provide a unified view interface that includes supervisory communications from a plurality of different applications. The supervisory communications may be based on multiple different supervised agents. The system may include a supervisory interface and associated interaction mechanism that facilitates the real time information availability trending monitoring and actions. The system may present the different applications in the same unified view interface in a manner that allows the supervisor to intuitively supervise agents based on priority of events and actions.

The methods and systems may allow supervisors also referred to herein as coaches to access a mobile coach application to perform varied diverse tasks. Systems and or methods may manage diverse tasks on a daily basis and enable real time handling of the tasks events. The unified view interface may provide tools that augment the skill set of the coach including a seamless delivery mechanism for notifications as well as an interaction mechanism. The systems may allow the user to access communications in the unified view interface or alternatively in the native applications associated with each supervisory communication.

User device may a device that a customer of the call center may use to contact the call center. User device may include any type of communication or computation device that is capable of transmitting and receiving voice signals and or data to from a network such as network . For example user device may include any standard telephone cordless telephone cellular telephone or other type of conventional telephone that interfaces with a public switched telephone network PSTN and or wireless network to place and receive telephone calls. User device may also include any client such as a computer device a web based appliance etc. that is configured to provide telephone functions using for example voice over Internet protocol VoIP H.323 protocol etc. For example user device may include a SIP based telephone device. User device may further include any type of communication or computation device such as a PC laptop computer tablet computer personal digital assistant cell phone etc. that is capable of transmitting data e.g. emails text messages instant messages facsimiles etc. video data e.g. video calls video chats video messages etc. and or voice data e.g. voice calls to from a network such as network .

Call center may represent a call center configured to receive and handle a large volume of calls. As shown in in some embodiments call center may include and agent workstations WSs through N referred to collectively as agent WSs or individually as agent WS voice portal and automatic call distributor ACD .

Agent WSs may include a workstation or computer such as a personal computer or laptop. Agent WSs may represent a workstation computer and operator or agent used to handle calls from callers that require human intervention. Agent WSs may include a software client e.g. a SIP client that may run for example on a conventional PC laptop computer or other computing device. Agent WSs may also include any device capable of performing IP based messaging such as VoIP to transmit voice video and or text. Agent WSs may also include any telephone device not shown to place and receive telephone calls. For example the telephone device may be a standard telephone a cordless telephone a cellular telephone or any other type of telephone. The telephone device may also include any type of device that is capable of transmitting and receiving voice signals to from a data network. For example the telephone device may include any client such as a computer device a web based appliance etc. that is configured to provide telephone functions. In some implementations agent WSs may include speech recognition hardware software that receives voice responses from a caller and identifies what the caller has voiced. In an exemplary implementation agent WSs may be associated with voice portal and ACD . In addition in an exemplary implementation agent WSs may be connected to ACD and or voice portal via a network such as network . In alternative implementations agent WSs may be connected directly to ACD and or voice portal connected via a LAN connected via a private network etc.

Voice portal may represent a front end device associated with call center . In an exemplary implementation voice portal may include interactive voice response IVR unit that interacts with callers to obtain information associated with the call.

ACD may distribute calls received at voice portal to one of agent WSs through N. ACD is illustrated as being a separate component that is located externally from voice portal . In some implementations ACD may be part of voice portal e.g. a sub component of voice portal . In each case ACD may forward calls to an available one of the agent WSs .

Supervisory communications support server may include a server that provides support for a unified view interface that includes supervisory communications and that may be accessed via supervisory interface device such as described below with respect to . Supervisory communications may include communications that enable the supervisor to supervise agent WSs . These communications may include direct communication with the supervised agent WS as well as monitoring communications that allow the supervisor to determine a status of the agent with respect to particular elements or components of assigned tasks e.g. particular types of calls stages of a transaction or event a call campaign categories of callers etc. . Supervisory communications support server may support an interface design and interaction mechanism that facilitates real time information availability trending monitoring and actions on supervisory interface device . Supervisory communications support server may receive communications associated with a call center and route particular communications based on supervisory requirements e.g. monitoring of particular agents types of calls etc. .

Supervisory interface device may include a device that provides a unified viewing interface in which supervisory communications for multiple agents within multiple diverse applications may be displayed such as described with respect to herein below. Examples of such diverse applications may include a group of applications in which each application is different from the other e.g. a texting SMS application a telephone application a calendar application or two different types of texting applications etc. . Supervisory interface device may determine a unified view interface based on supervisory communications associated with the diverse applications. The unified view interface includes common graphical elements and display rules associated with the diverse applications. Supervisory interface device may allow supervisors coaches to perform varied diverse tasks on a daily basis while maintaining context priority and a comparative or relative time of occurrence of each supervisory communication with respect to each supervised or managed agent and the supervisor s overall workload. The context may identify a person an event an action a time or other factors associated with supervisory communications in a manner that allows the supervisor to place the supervisory communication within a larger whole or context .

In implementations described herein systems and methods may provide a unified viewing interface that includes supervisory communications between a supervisory person and a plurality of supervised individuals. The supervisory communications may be received or sent via diverse multiple applications that may be concurrently displayed in the unified viewing interface. The systems may include a publications subscription pub sub system in which the supervisor may subscribe to alerts for particular supervised agent WSs based on preselected criteria.

Unified supervisory display may provide a unified display that allows supervisors to access diverse applications in a same context and to communicate with and perform various tasks associated with different agent WSs . For example unified supervisory display may display notifications associated with agent WS in a predetermined sequence based on a relative priority urgency or a latest received or sent communication for the agent WSs . In one embodiment the notifications may be arranged based on the subject matter of a call or event currently associated with the particular agent WS . In another embodiment notifications and supervisory alerts may be grouped based on a particular supervised agent WS for example all message communications telephone items and mail items associated with the particular agent WS may be presented based on an input provided by the supervisor or alternatively as part of a standard configuration .

Unified supervisory display may allow the supervisor to pay attention to particular items e.g. a customer phone call associated with an agent WS while maintaining supervision of other items agents WSs . Unified supervisory display may be arranged in a manner to ensure that the attention of supervisor is not limited to a particular application e.g. based on visual placement of the diverse applications within unified supervisory display . Unified supervisory display may include multiple applications simultaneously displayed. Unified supervisory display may arrange the applications in a relative position to other applications based on information content and time stamp associated with supervisory communications received within the application e.g. an application that includes the most recently updated supervisory communication may be placed at the top of the unified view . Unified supervisory display may provide uniform delivery and seamless interaction based on the diverse applications. Unified supervisory display may receive notifications in a uniform format from supervisory communications support server . Alternatively unified supervisory display may convert diverse notification formats to a uniform format that may be displayed in the unified view.

Supervisory notifications may include notifications and communications between the supervisor and supervised workers. Supervisory notifications may include communications between the supervisor and supervised workers e.g. text communication conversations posted notices from the supervisor to agents WSs etc. Supervisory notifications may include information that requires an action performed by supervisor that may or may not be accessible via the supervisory communications interface e.g. a visual inspection of a particular item . Supervisory notifications may be grouped by common elements agent WSs particular issues etc.

Message communications with supervised personnel may be arranged based on a latest received message e.g. conversation A with supervised worker A may include a later communication than conversation B with supervised worker B . Message communications may include text messages short message service SMS and other applications that support real time messaging. Telephone items may include items with which the supervisor may access telephonic capabilities such as telephone communications voicemail etc. Calendar items may include scheduled items associated with supervision of agent WSs . For example calendar items may include a periodic review of agent WS . Additionally calendar items may include items that are determined by the supervisor or items provided by other supervisors or personnel associated with the call center .

Supervisory alerts may include alerts regarding supervised workers agents WSs that may be received in a pub sub system such as described below with respect to . The pub sub system may be a system in which the supervisor subscribes to particular alerts that are published by supervisory communications support server . In instances in which a predetermined condition is detected the supervisory communications support server may send the supervisory alerts to subscribing supervisors e.g. supervisory interface devices . Supervisory alerts may include predetermined alerts that the supervisor may subscribe to as well as customized alerts that the supervisor may design to monitor particular events situations and or agent WSs .

Supervisory action options may provide an ability to perform particular actions associated with supervision of agents WSs based on the capabilities of the applications associated with the notification or supervisory alert . Supervisory action options may be configured based on category agent WSs supervisor defined requirement e.g. calls that continue beyond a predetermined time limit without a particular response etc. Each of message communications telephone items calendar items mail items and supervisory alerts may have associated supervisory action options based on the particular application e.g. call back based on voicemail flag email etc. . For example for telephone items the supervisor may listen to calls record calls receive an alert based on particular chronic callers or callers that have previously initiated a transaction etc. Further supervisory action options may include highlighting particular items for later disposition responding to an item via a particular application or interface scheduling an alert forwarding messages etc.

Supervisory communications interface may allow the supervisor to access and manage a diversity of the tasks associated with multiple diverse applications in a real time requirement environment in a seamless manner. Supervisory communications interface may be extensible to accommodate additional applications that include supervisory communications functions and intuitive and friendly for quick navigation interaction in order to execute the supervisory functions.

Bus may include a path that permits communication among the components of device . Processor may include one or more processors microprocessors or other types of processing units that may interpret and execute instructions. Main memory may include a random access memory RAM or another type of dynamic storage device that may store information and instructions for execution by processor . ROM may include a ROM device or another type of static storage device that may store static information and or instructions for use by processor . Storage device may include a magnetic and or optical recording medium and its corresponding drive.

Input device may include a mechanism that permits an operator to input information to device such as a remote control control buttons a keyboard a mouse a pen a microphone voice recognition and or biometric mechanisms a touch screen etc. Output device may include a mechanism that outputs information to the operator including a display an indicator light a speaker etc. Communication interface may include any transceiver that enables device to communicate with other devices and or systems. For example communication interface may include mechanisms for communicating with another device or system via a network.

As described herein device may perform certain operations in response to processor executing machine readable software instructions contained in a computer readable medium such as main memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a non transitory memory device. A memory device may include space within a single physical memory device or spread across multiple physical memory devices. The machine readable instructions may be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or from another device via communication interface . The machine readable instructions contained in main memory may cause processor to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and machine readable instructions.

Although shows exemplary components of device in other implementations device may contain fewer components different components differently arranged components or additional components than depicted in . In still other implementations one or more components of device may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of device .

Unified view support module may collect information from diverse applications i.e. a group of applications in which each application is different from the other associated with supervisory interface device such as described below with respect to . Unified view support module may build a unified view and export or push the unified view to a client application configured to process unified view on supervisory interface device .

Notifications module may provide consistent notification information and communication with supervised agent WSs and other personnel e.g. other supervisors management personnel associated with the call center etc. . Notifications module may receive information that is formatted in a particular format on agent WSs e.g. using different tools and native applications and transcode the information into a format that may be presented on the unified view on supervisory interface device . Notifications module may launch a specific event in an appropriate application e.g. a text message based on a predetermined category. Notifications module may provide notification information in a format that is consistent with the unified view while providing the distinction between various categories including applications events agent WSs etc. at the same time.

According to one embodiment notifications module may support event trending capabilities that identify events that are occurring within the supervisor s area of responsibility. The diverse applications may include a trending application that identifies trends with regard to predefined parameters in network for supervised agent WSs e.g. call conversions productivity targets etc. . Notifications module may identify events trend based on activity lifetime and priority to facilitate better focus point for the supervisor. For example notifications module may identify an increased call volume associated with a particular issue particular anomalous results e.g. slow processing times low percentage of call conversions etc. for agent WSs associated with different types of calls etc.

Alert subscription module may allow the supervisor to sign up for different alerts in a publication subscription pub sub system to manage workstations . Alert subscription module may provide a capability to subscribe to events based on particular personnel and particular actions such as described below with respect to .

Supervisory action support module may provide options based on particular categories associated with each supervisory communication. Supervisory action support module may provide options based on the application associated with the supervisory communications. For example in the event of a particular category of customer call supervisory action support module may allow the supervisor to listen to or join the customer call. Supervisory action support module may allow the supervisor to hang up transcribe record or transfer the call. For voicemail supervisory action support module may provide options associated with voicemail applications. Additionally supervisory action support module may allow possible actions based on a category of the incoming customer caller the agent WSs and supervisor set flags for particular events etc. Supervisory action support module may provide a capability to respond to events via user gestures based on category and or configuration of the supervisory communication.

Unified view presentation module may determine a unified view that includes diverse applications associated with multiple different agent WSs . Unified view presentation module may provide a single screen for managing representatives or agents in a call center. Unified view presentation module may allow simultaneous display of information from multiple sources for a single agent WS or multiple different agent WSs in a unified view. The unified view does not require context switching. Unified view presentation module may function as a catch all event gatherer that aggregates all supervisory communications in a single unified view. For example unified view presentation module may present the diverse applications in a chat window format in which all events are hosted in one single window. Unified view presentation module may allow the supervisor to interact with each item to identify additional information regarding an event e.g. the supervisor may slide the event in the unified view right and or left to see additional information relative to the event . Unified view presentation module may present the unified view in a manner that allows the supervisor to track people and agent WSs under supervision. Unified view presentation module may receive information from multiple sources such as system generated alerts alerts from call management system ACD calls from voice portal notification regarding flags from the customer profile etc.

Notification module may provide notifications from agent WSs and other parties within call center via different applications that may be presented within the unified view. Notification module may display notifications within particular applications or associated with particular agent WSs based on limits and parameters associated with each application and or agent WS . For example notification module may show the last one or two messages from a text message conversation. Notification module may provide time stamps and may be expandable to provide additional information. Notification module may include reminders from the supervisor s calendar emails calls as well as information from the customer profile associated with each supervisory communication.

Alert subscription module may allow the supervisor to subscribe to events regarding the supervision of agent WSs that may be published by supervisory communications support server . Alert subscription module may allow the supervisor to configure events that are to be published by supervisory communications support server . Alert subscription module may receive subscribed alerts in instances in which subscribed events are identified by supervisory communications support server .

According to one embodiment alert subscription module may allow classification of calls e.g. campaign calls and the capability to determine particular alerts based on the classification of the call. In an instance in which a representative is insufficiently capable of handling a particular type of call the supervisor may set an alert to be notified in whenever the representative receives that particular type of call.

Update module may determine and apply rules regarding placement and movement of items as the items are updated in unified view. Update module may move an application to a top position or a central position based on the focus point of the supervisor in instances in which there are updates. In other instances update module may move items based on priority supervisor interaction recent activity etc. In one example update module may allow the supervisor user to automatically push emails that are replies to emails that the supervisor has sent out to a top position.

Supervisory action module may provide a capability to apply supervisory actions to items. Supervisory action module may provide interface graphical elements such as buttons dial pads etc. which may allow the supervisor to execute particular actions based on the notifications or alerts. Supervisory action module may provide an action menu to participate in call e.g. swipe right . For example supervisory action module may allow the supervisor to listen to calls to join calls to mute participants of calls place participants on hold etc. Supervisory action module may provide a capability to expand chats read archive mark unread join live chats etc. Supervisory action module may provide capability to execute appropriate actions associated with emails.

Unified view presentation logic may provide rendering support and guidelines for displaying common elements and particular graphical components associated with the diverse applications within the unified view. Unified view presentation logic may retrieve the guidelines from memory . Unified view presentation logic may further define the unified view based on screen layout requirements time stamps associated with the supervisory communications etc. Unified view presentation logic may present the diverse applications in a single unified interface sorted and displayed within the unified view. Unified view presentation logic may sort the applications in a dynamic manner based on agent WSs supervisory requirements priority urgency activity lifetime latest received communication etc.

Unified view presentation logic may provide rules retrieved for example from memory that determine how the unified view is affected by updates. Unified view presentation logic may determine that any supervisory communication that updates gets on the top. Alternatively unified view presentation logic may determine the updated unified view based on a combination of recent activity priority most recently updated communication etc. Unified view presentation logic may determine rules and guidelines by which all supervisory tools and members i.e. agent WSs and other personnel are displayed on the screen within the unified view. Unified view presentation logic may allow the supervisor to add sounds vibrations etc. to notifications.

According to an embodiment unified view presentation logic may enable the supervisor to break out one or more of the diverse applications displayed in the unified view into a complete native application that is separate from the unified view. This may provide access to additional functionality that is not available within the unified view as well as provide the supervisor the option to work within an environment of their choice e.g. a portable document file format . In some instances the native application may provide additional ease of use options etc. Unified view presentation logic may determine rules and configuration that allow the supervisor to open each of the diverse applications that may be displayed in unified view within a native application separate from the unified view .

Unified view personalization logic may determine rules and guidelines regarding how the supervisor may personalize the unified view displayed on supervisory interface device . Unified view personalization logic may allow each user to determine a personalized view e.g. according to persons that the supervisor is managing . Unified view personalization logic may determine the rules for personalization of the unified view in association with a pub sub system for alerts within network . Unified view personalization logic may allow the supervisor to prioritize notifications.

Memory as described above may store information regarding guidelines for presenting the unified view and personalization of the unified view. Memory may also information regarding caller agent WSs and supervisors.

Alert definition logic may define rules regarding alerts that may be distributed in network . Alert definition logic may determine alerts that may be set by supervisors via supervisory interface device and the modes of notification based on detection of a condition associated with the alert. Alert definition logic may receive and store instructions regarding personalization of alerts for example in memory . The instructions may be required to fit within predetermined parameters e.g. a number of alerts authorization level frequency etc. . Alert definition logic may allow the supervisor to define alerts on an agent WS plus action specific basis i.e. alerts may arise when a particular agent WS does a particular action . For example alert definition logic may allow the supervisor to receive an alert for disconnection of service calls as opposed to sales calls etc. .

Alert definition logic may allow each supervisor to select different categories to monitor via alerts such as incoming chats incoming calls etc. Alert definition logic may further allow the supervisor to define a threshold for a particular customer or agent WSs e.g. the notification may be triggered in instances in which the agent WS does not close a predetermined number of calls . Alert definition logic may access an application programming interface API that to communicate with the supervisory interface device and define actions that trigger particular responses e.g. swipe left to right click and hold etc. . Alert definition logic may define the interface between supervisory interface device and alert subscription module .

Pub sub logic may define a pub sub system by which the alerts are disseminated in network . Pub sub logic may allow the supervisor to subscribe to an event which pub sub logic or other components of network may publish as a source system. For example ACD may publish an event to the system via pub sub logic . Pub sub logic may publish incoming calls transferred calls dropped calls calls to a specific number etc. and each supervisor may determine the calls that the particular supervisor chooses to monitor. The supervisors may subscribe to the pub sub logic and receive notifications or alerts in real time.

Memory as described above may store information regarding personalization of alerts. Memory may also store information that defines alerts the pub sub system etc.

As shown in process may include supervisory communications support server identifying diverse applications associated with supervision of agent WSs block . For example supervisory communications support server may determine or identify that the suite of applications that the supervisor may access to supervise agent WSs via supervisory interface device includes particular computer programs applications etc.

Process may include supervisory communications support server determining or generating a unified view of the diverse applications that may be accessed via supervisory interface device block . In some embodiments supervisory communications support server may generate the unified view based on common graphical elements a template associated with the unified view and particular graphical elements associated with each of the diverse applications.

Supervisory communications support server may export the unified view to supervisory interface device block . Supervisory communications support server may receive a request for the unified view from a supervisory interface device . Supervisory communications support server may export the unified view to supervisory interface device in response to a request from supervisory interface device . Supervisory communications support server may provide support for the unified view on supervisory interface device including visual elements and underlying functionality associated with each of the diverse applications .

Supervisory communications support server may receive and send notifications to supervisory interface device block . For example supervisory communications support server may receive notifications associated with a diversity of the tasks that the supervisors perform on a daily basis with respect to supervised agent WSs . Supervisory communications support server may provide support for real time handling of the tasks events including a notification and interaction mechanism that augments the skill set of the supervisor coach as well as delivers information in a seamless fashion.

Supervisory communications support server may provide alerts to supervisory interface device based on a pub sub system block . For example supervisory communications support server may publish alerts based on particular events in network . Supervisory communications support server may publish the alerts in response to instructions received from supervisory interface devices . Supervisory communications support server may provide alerts when the subscribed events occur.

Supervisory communications support server may receive and execute supervisory actions from supervisory interface device block . For example supervisory communications support server may allow the supervisory interface device to bookmark listen in record mark as read transcribe via voice recognition in real time etc.

Systems and or methods described herein may provide a unified view interface including supervisory communications via diverse applications for supervising agent workstations. The systems and methods may gather management information for multiple systems into one single user interface that allows thresholds alert types and notification mechanisms. The supervising user may perform actions based on the total context as shown in diverse applications of the supervisory communication. Although described with respect to agent work stations systems and methods may be extended to any supervisor to supervised personnel environment. For example the systems and methods may be applied to a production line environment.

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense. For example while series of blocks have been described with respect to the order of the blocks may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel.

It will be apparent that systems and or methods as described above may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these systems and methods is not limiting of the embodiments. Thus the operation and behavior of the systems and methods were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware can be designed to implement the systems and methods based on the description herein.

Further certain portions of the invention may be implemented as a component or system that performs one or more functions. These components systems may include hardware such as a processor an ASIC or a FPGA or a combination of hardware and software.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the embodiments unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

