---

title: System and method for generating visual identifiers from user input associated with perceived stimuli
abstract: The present invention generally relates to systems for generating visual identifiers. In particular, the systems and methods herein are configured to generate visual identifiers for representing user response to stimuli. In a preferred embodiment, visual identifiers are generated from primary colors or shapes, wherein the primary colors and/or shapes can be blended or modified based on strength/weakness of the stimuli experienced by a user or across a plurality of users. Preferred embodiments of the invention are further configured to receive text or other non-visual identifier from a user in order to describe the response the user has to a stimuli; wherein the associated system is configured to convert the described response into an appropriate visual identifier.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09503504&OS=09503504&RS=09503504
owner: 
number: 09503504
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20141119
---
The present invention generally relates to systems for generating visual identifiers. In particular the systems and methods herein are configured to generate visual identifiers for representing user response to stimuli. In a preferred embodiment visual identifiers are generated from primary colors or shapes wherein the primary colors and or shapes can be blended or modified based on strength weakness of the stimuli experienced by a user or across a plurality of users. Preferred embodiments of the invention are further configured to receive text or other non visual identifier from a user in order to describe the response the user has to stimuli wherein the associated system is configured to convert the described response into an appropriate visual identifier.

Association between visual identifiers such as colors and shapes have long been associated with stimuli experienced by individuals. When describing stimulus such as emotions e.g. anger calmness stress happiness passion physical sensations e.g. nausea pain tension lightness hyperactivity of muscles joints or other stimuli perceived or experienced by an individual a common representation is a basic visual representation that arouses similar sensations. For instance colors and shapes are frequently used to identify stimulus experienced by individuals. An example of this is a mood ring which changes color based on an underlying mood of the wearer.

Research has indicated that certain colors can be almost universally associated with particular stimuli regardless of variances in individuals. Further certain colors can also cause individuals to experience related stimuli that the individual associates with that color. For instance studies have shown that warm colors such as orange and yellow can elicit a hunger response and are associated with food.

In most cases individuals currently use numbers and vocabulary to describe and define responses to stimuli. When asked to describe how an individual feels about something they may be asked to describe it in words or provide input on a numeric scale e.g. 1 through 10 . However since numbers and vocabulary can be a restrictive tool for measuring stimuli such as emotions moods emotional intelligence and because words can be subjective and have different interpretations depending on variables such as context and background of the individual e.g. socioeconomic background education level native language describing such stimuli can be difficult given its dynamic nature.

Since stimuli can be accurately represented across individuals through colors and other visual identifiers it would be advantageous to have a system that could receive input from individuals on a stimuli and output an accurate representation of that stimuli in a visual identifier. However there are currently no systems or methods for generating visual identifiers from user input associated with perceived stimuli.

Therefore there is need in the art for systems and methods for generating visual identifiers from user input associated with perceived stimuli. These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be explained and will become obvious to one skilled in the art through the summary of the invention that follows.

Accordingly it is an aspect of the present invention to provide a system and method for generating visual identifiers from user input associated with perceived stimuli.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a web based system for generating visual identifiers from user input associated with perceived stimuli includes an input classification module comprising computer executable code stored in non volatile memory a visual identifier generation module comprising computer executable code stored in non volatile memory a communications means comprising computer executable code stored in non volatile memory and a processor wherein said input classification module said visual identifier generation module said processor and said communications means are operably connected and wherein said input classification module said visual identifier generation module said processor and said communications means are configured to collectively present a user with a stimuli receive user input related to said stimuli wherein at least a portion of said user input is text based input convert said text based input into language component data analyze said language component data for one or more corresponding visual identifiers and generate a final visual identifier based on analysis of said language component data.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the input classification module the visual identifier generation module the processor and the communications means are further configured to collectively retrieve one or more stored visual identifiers associated with said stimuli and generate an aggregate visual identifier wherein said aggregate visual identifier is based at least in part on said final visual identifier and said one or more stored visual identifiers.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the input classification module the visual identifier generation module the processor and the communications means are further configured to collectively receive sensor data from one or more sensors associated with the user process said sensor data into one or more sensor data visual identifiers compare sensor data visual identifier with said final visual identifiers and generate an aggregate visual identifier wherein said aggregate visual identifier is based at least in part on said final visual identifier and said one or more sensor data visual identifiers.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the input classification module the visual identifier generation module the processor and the communications means are further configured to collectively verify said final visual identifier corresponds to said sensor data visual identifier update a vocabulary database associated with said visual identifier generation module based on said sensor data visual identifier.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a web based method for generating visual identifiers from user input associated with perceived stimuli includes the steps of presenting a user with a stimuli receiving user input related to said stimuli wherein at least a portion of said user input is text based input converting said text based input into language component data analyzing said language component data for one or more corresponding visual identifiers and generating a final visual identifier based on analysis of said language component data.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the method further includes the steps of retrieving one or more stored visual identifiers associated with said stimuli and generating an aggregate visual identifier wherein said aggregate visual identifier is based at least in part on said final visual identifier and said one or more stored visual identifiers.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the method further includes the steps of receiving sensor data from one or more sensors associated with the user processing said sensor data into one or more sensor data visual identifiers comparing sensor data visual identifier with said final visual identifiers and generating an aggregate visual identifier wherein said aggregate visual identifier is based at least in part on said final visual identifier and said one or more sensor data visual identifiers.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the method further includes the steps of verifying said final visual identifier corresponds to said sensor data visual identifier updating a vocabulary database associated with said visual identifier generation module based on said sensor data visual identifier.

The foregoing summary of the present invention with the preferred embodiments should not be construed to limit the scope of the invention. It should be understood and obvious to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention thus described may be further modified without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

The present invention generally relates to systems for generating visual identifiers. In particular the systems and methods herein are configured to generate visual identifiers for representing user response to stimuli. In a preferred embodiment visual identifiers are generated from primary colors or shapes wherein the primary colors and or shapes can be blended or modified based on strength weakness of the stimuli experienced by a user or across a plurality of users. Preferred embodiments of the invention are further configured to receive text or other non visual identifier from a user in order to describe the response the user has to a stimuli wherein the associated system is configured to convert the described response into an appropriate visual identifier.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the system and method is accomplished through the use of one or more computing devices. As shown in One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that a computing device appropriate for use with embodiments of the present application may generally be comprised of one or more of a Central processing Unit CPU Random Access Memory RAM a storage medium e.g. hard disk drive solid state drive flash memory cloud storage an operating system OS one or more application software display element and one or more input output devices means . Examples of computing devices usable with embodiments of the present invention include but are not limited to personal computers smart phones laptops mobile computing devices and tablet PCs and servers. One of ordinary skill in the art would understand that any number of computing devices could be used and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any computing device.

In an exemplary embodiment according to the present invention data may be provided to the system stored by the system and provided by the system to users of the system across local area networks LANs e.g. office networks home networks or wide area networks WANs e.g. the Internet . In accordance with the previous embodiment the system may be comprised of numerous servers communicatively connected across one or more LANs and or WANs. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous manners in which the system could be configured and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any configuration.

In general the system and methods provided herein may be consumed by a user of a computing device whether connected to a network or not. According to an embodiment of the present invention some of the applications of the present invention may not be accessible when not connected to a network however a user may be able to compose data offline that will be consumed by the system when the user is later connected to a network.

Referring to a schematic overview of a system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention is shown. The system is comprised of one or more application servers for electronically storing information used by the system. Applications in the application server may retrieve and manipulate information in storage devices and exchange information through a WAN e.g. the Internet . Applications in server may also be used to manipulate information stored remotely and process and analyze data stored remotely across a WAN e.g. the Internet .

According to an exemplary embodiment as shown in exchange of information through the WAN or other network may occur through one or more high speed connections. In some cases high speed connections may be over the air OTA passed through networked systems directly connected to one or more WANs or directed through one or more routers . Router s are completely optional and other embodiments in accordance with the present invention may or may not utilize one or more routers . One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous ways server may connect to WAN for the exchange of information and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any method for connecting to networks for the purpose of exchanging information. Further while this application refers to high speed connections embodiments of the present invention may be utilized with connections of any speed.

Components of the system may connect to server via WAN or other network in numerous ways. For instance a component may connect to the system i through a computing device directly connected to the WAN ii through a computing device connected to the WAN through a routing device iii through a computing device connected to a wireless access point or iv through a computing device via a wireless connection e.g. CDMA GMS 3G 4G to the WAN . One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous ways that a component may connect to server via WAN or other network and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any method for connecting to server via WAN or other network. Furthermore server could be comprised of a personal computing device such as a smartphone acting as a host for other computing devices to connect to.

Turning now to an exemplary embodiment of a system for generating visual identifiers from user input associated with perceived stimuli is shown. In this embodiment the system includes a communications means an input classification module a visual identifier generation module a non transitory memory module a data store a processor and an application programming interface API . While the embodiment shown in is an exemplary embodiment other embodiments may include additional or fewer components. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous configurations of the components that could be utilized with embodiments of the present invention and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any configuration of components.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the communications means may be for instance any means for communicating data over one or more networks. Appropriate communications means may include but are not limited to wireless connections wired connections cellular connections data port connections Bluetooth connections fiber optic connections modems network interface cards or any combination thereof. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous communications means that may be utilized with embodiments of the present invention and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any communications means.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the input classification module is configured interact with commands send and received from the user including the receipt of input data and transmission of stimuli to a user. The input classification module may be configured to interpret and process various types of input data. Input data may include but is not limited to text data audio data sensor data or any combination thereof. Text data may be received from a user using any appropriate input source such as a keyboard or touchscreen device. Audio data may be received from a user using any appropriate audio input source such as a microphone headset or other audio device. Sensor data is data received from one or more sensors that are receiving information about a user such as but not limited to heart rate neurotransmissions brain waves EKGs perspiration levels respiration rate eye movement dilation or any combination thereof. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous types of sensors and input sources that could be utilized with embodiments of the present invention and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any appropriate sensor type or input source.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the visual identifier generation module is configured to process input data related to stimuli presented to users into a visual identifier that represents the input data in a visual manner. The input data is generally provided to the visual identifier generation module by the input classification module . However in other embodiments the modules may be combined or broken down into additional modules. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate there are numerous configurations that could be used with embodiments of the present invention and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any appropriate configuration.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the communications means input classification module visual identifier generation module non transitory memory module data store processor and application programming interface API work in conjunction with one another to provide the methods and functionality described herein. The collective grouping of these components or any appropriate configuration thereof being referable to as the system.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the system is configured to use visual identifiers to describe or represent responses individuals have to stimuli. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the visual identifiers used by the system are generally primary colors simples shapes and permutations thereof. Visual identifiers are intended to be identifiers in which users can relate to stimuli merely by the visual appearance of the identifier as opposed to requiring words text or other more common identifiers. Given that visual identifiers such as colors elicit a more standard reaction across individuals than say for instance text based identifiers users who view visual identifiers provided by the system can get a more accurate identification of a stimulus.

The term stimuli as used herein is defined as any output from a device that is intended to elicit a response from a user. Stimuli may include but is not limited to visual stimuli audible stimuli tactile stimuli or any combination thereof. Visual stimuli includes visually perceptible output such as art text graphics or any other output that is perceived by the eyes of a user. Audible stimuli includes audibly perceptible output such as music speech tones or any other output that is perceived through the ears of a user. Tactile stimuli includes touch perceptible output such as force feedback temperature grittiness softness wetness or any other output that is perceived through the tactile sensory system of a user. In certain embodiments the system may be configured to present one or more various types of stimuli to a user. Additional hardware may be required to provide stimuli to the user such as force feedback systems speakers headphones or display elements. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous types of such hardware that could be utilized with embodiments of the present invention and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any appropriate type of stimuli presenting hardware.

In certain embodiments the term stimuli may also be associated with events situations or other experiences. For instance the system may receive input related to stimuli where the stimuli was an event e.g. concert vacation visit to a doctor a place e.g. store theme park ride a series of interactions e.g. playing of a video game or any combination thereof. The system may be configured to capture the overall sentiment of these interactions. In certain embodiments the system may be configured to receive and process real time sentiment such as by providing a visual identifier for stimuli across all users viewing a real time event e.g. political debate sporting event concert . One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate there are numerous stimuli that could be utilized by embodiments of the present invention and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any appropriate stimuli.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the system provides one or more stimuli to a user in order to elicit input data from the user about the stimuli. The system then processes the input data into one or more visual identifiers that can be later used in conjunction with the stimuli or as a visual identifier for other users in association with the stimuli. For instance a user may be provided with a song to listen to i.e. stimuli and after listening to the song the user can provide input data about the song e.g. text input and or sensor input data to the system. The system will then process the input data into a visual identifier e.g. a color and associate the corresponding visual identifier with the song. The next time user requests information about that song the system can be used to provide the visual identifier to alert the requesting user about sensations the song may have elicited in other users. This process is described in greater detail below.

Further in certain embodiments the system may be configured to provide multiple visual identifiers for a particular event item based on one or more stimuli provided by that event item. For instance a food may be given separate visual indicators for taste smell texture and appearance. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that the system could utilize any number of visual identifiers for each item event stimuli and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with application of any number of visual identifier per item event stimuli.

According to an embodiment of the present invention when multiple users have provided input data related to a stimuli the associated visual identifier may be modified to represent the collective response associated with the input data across all users. Since the response may vary among different users the total or collective response can be aggregated into a single visual identifier. For instance initial color information i.e. visual identifier associated with a stimuli may move towards a second color e.g. a mix of two or more primary colors as the aggregate response across all users represents a mixed response e.g. users did not all have the same response . The resulting aggregate visual identifier may be taken as a true indicator of the response that would be elicited across a group of users if the stimuli were to be so presented. depicts an exemplary embodiment of how colors may be associated with one another on numerous levels e.g. primary secondary tertiary .

With respect to generating a visual identifier for a stimuli the system may draw upon one or more data sources for interpreting input data. For instance input data that is either text or audio may be processed into its language roots and cross referenced against one or more vocabulary databases that have visual indicators associated with various words phrases. These vocabulary databases may be manually provided with visual identifiers previously associated with specific words phrases. In order to do this preferred embodiments of the present invention are configured to break down input data that comprises language data into language component data. Language component data may be either a single word or series of words that are commonly used together and elicit a specific response.

Alternatively the system may be put through a training phase to build proprietary vocabulary database. For instance the system may use input data from one or more users by presenting each user with a series of words phrases to be utilized in the vocabulary database. The input data may be then aggregated for each word providing an accurate representation of the appropriate visual identifier for each word. Input data in this case may be for instance a primary color or a selection of a color on a color wheel. In certain embodiments the input data may be augmented with sensor data to verify the accuracy of the user provided input data such as matching the color selected by the user with biometric data e.g. heart rate pupil dilation received from sensors. The system could determine whether the color provided by the user is in line with the biometric data to ensure the veracity of the response. A preferred embodiment of the training method is detailed later herein.

Further the system can in conjunction with the aforementioned vocabulary databases use information known about words phrases in the vocabulary databases to automatically associate certain visual identifiers with words phrases not previously trained. For instance the system may use knowledge about synonyms and antonyms associated with an untrained word phrase to provide appropriate visual identifier information to such previously untrained word i.e. synonyms receiving similar visual identifiers as the underlying word antonyms receiving opposite or relatively opposing visual identifiers as the underlying word . Synonym antonym information may be retrieved from local databases or pulled from third party providers e.g. such as via an API . Once identified the system can store the newly trained information into its vocabulary databases for future use. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous types of information that could be used in this manner for the training of otherwise untrained words phrases and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any appropriate training methods.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the system may be configured to augment the visual identifier through addition of an intensity level. For instance input data received from the user can be utilized to determine not only a particular visual identifier but the intensity of the experienced stimuli may impact the corresponding visual identifier by varying an intensity of the visual identifier. In one embodiment intensity can be represented through the visual identifier by way of brightness dullness. Brighter visual identifiers could represent a more intense stimuli response with a dull visual identifier representing the opposite. In other embodiments size may be used to denote intensity with a large visual identifier denoting an intense stimuli response with a small visual identifier representing the opposite. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous methods that could be utilized to represent intensity in a visual identifier and embodiments of the present invention are contemplate for use with any method for representing intensity.

In certain embodiments intensity may be represented in a separate visual identifier. For instance a color may be used a primary visual identifier with a secondary visual identifier e.g. shape being used to indicate intensity. For instance the primary visual identifier could be a color e.g. blue and the intensity could be represented by a shape e.g. triangle . In this example the shape itself could act as a representation of intensity or features of the shape such as size of the shape could be used as a representation of intensity. In still further embodiments other types of identifiers could be used to represent intensity. For instance numbers could be used to represent intensity e.g. scale of 1 10 . One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous secondary visual identifiers and other identifiers that could be utilized to represent intensity in a visual identifier and embodiments of the present invention are contemplate for use with any method for representing intensity via secondary visual identifiers and other identifiers.

In another embodiment intensity may be represented through opaqueness of the primary visual identifier. For instance a primary visual identifier may be more or less transparent depending on intensity. For instance the primary visual identifier could be nearly transparent when the intensity is low and nearly solid or solid i.e. opaque when intensity is high with varying levels of transparency opaqueness being used to denote the various levels of intensity in between.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the system may be further configured to receive input data from third party providers and process such third party input data into an aggregate visual identifier. For instance a third party provider may be a repository for text based reviews e.g. restaurant reviews travel reviews . The third party provider could provide the text based reviews to the system such as via an API and the system could process each review into an individual visual identifier and provide an aggregate visual identifier representing experience across the reviews in total. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous types of third party providers that could provide input data to the system for processing and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any type of third party provider and third party provider input data type.

Turning now to an exemplary method for providing stimuli receiving user input and processing input data to generate a visual identifier is shown. The process starts at step with a user interacting with the system. At step the system provides the user one or more stimuli as described above herein. In certain embodiments where the stimuli is related to experiences exterior to the system e.g. stimuli related to user s experience with an event item or service the provision of stimuli may be provided by one or more questions about the exterior stimuli whether in a qualitative or quantitative manner.

At step the system receives input data from the user where the input data is associated with the stimuli. As noted above the input data may be just text based data or a combination of text based data and sensor data. In other embodiments the input data may be completely sensor based data. At step the system separates out the text based input data i.e. language input from any sensor data.

At step the system determines if there is any sensor data or if the input data solely consists of language input. If only language input is provided the system proceeds to step where the language input is analyzed. In preferred embodiments as described above the language input is generally broken down into individual parts and reviewed against one or more vocabulary databases. Once each portion of the language input is processed the system generates a visual identifier from the processed language input step . At this point the process ends at step .

Back at step if the input data includes sensor data then the system proceeds to step where the system analyzes the language input data similar to step and augments the processed language input data with sensor data. Sensor data can help add context or otherwise verify the veracity of the language input data provided by a user. At step the system generates a visual identifier based on the processed language data and sensor data. Optionally at step the system may augment the language vocabulary database based on the sensor data. This can help to check the veracity of the vocabulary stored in the database and improve results for later processing of stimuli. At this point the process terminates at step .

Turning now to complimentary training methods for perfecting a vocabulary database for use with the system.

At step the visual identifier is provided to the user. The user then provides input associated with the visual identifier to the system at step . The system then associates the input vocabulary i.e. words phrases provided by the user that are associated with the visual identifier step . At step the system can update the vocabulary database s and the process will terminate at step .

At step the system receives the sensor data. The sensor data is then verified and associated with the visual identifier step . In this case since the visual identifier is being defined the system can associate biometric or other sensor data with that visual identifier for confirming experienced stimuli with such biometrics or otherwise validating that a visual identifier appropriately represents its underlying vocabulary e.g. calm the word represents a calm state biometrically . At step the system updates the associated vocabulary database s and the process terminates at step .

At step the system receives the user s response to the stimuli in this format the input should be a color input e.g. primary secondary tertiary . Once the response is received the system can then associate the color input with the defined basic stimuli step . At step the system updates the associated vocabulary database s and the process terminates at step .

At step the system receives the sensor data. The sensor data is then verified and processed into the appropriate visual indicators step . At step the system updates the associated vocabulary database s and the process terminates at step .

At step the user receives the stimuli and provides user input related to the stimuli. The system then checks if the stimuli has been previously interacted with or otherwise provided previously e.g. whether a song has been provided to users previously determination step . If this is the first time the stimuli has been provided to a user the system generates a new entry for the stimuli at step . The system then analyzes the user input associated with the stimuli as described herein step . At step the system generates a visual identifier for the stimuli and stores the visual identifier accordingly. The process then terminates at step .

Back at determination step if the stimuli has previously been provided to users then the system analyzes the current user input at step . The system then retrieves the visual identifier s already associated with the stimuli as generated by the system based on previously received user input step .

At step once the new input data and previously provided visual identifiers have been received the system generates a new visual identifier based on an aggregation of the data. The system can then store the updated visual identifier associated with the stimuli step at which point the process will terminate at step .

At step the system receives the user s response to the stimuli. For example the input may be a color input e.g. primary secondary tertiary selected from the visual identifier selection tool provided to the user. Once the response is received the system can then associate the color input with the provided stimuli step . At step the system updates the visual identifier associated with the stimuli in aggregate and the process terminates at step .

In terms of application the system and methods detailed herein can be used by various industries in helping distinguish and represent events items goods services and other stimuli based on visual identifiers as described herein. By using these visual identifiers emotional responses can be elicited from users and improve the understanding of the underlying consumer and the impact such stimuli can have on a market. Further users can quickly identify via the visual identifiers which stimuli they would be interested in interacting with based on their own knowledge of what visual identifiers correspond to pleasant or otherwise desired stimuli.

In certain embodiments generation application and use of the visual identifiers can allow for instant recognition by users of various stimuli. Users can use this knowledge to interact with various stimuli based on the associated visual indicator. Since visual identifiers can be applied to physical products services and information the application of visual identifier consumption can be utilized broadly. Users can select music art stories products brands service providers or any of a number of various classes of goods services or other content based on one or more visual identifiers.

Specific examples of usage may include but are not limited to i using visual identifiers in a online dating service where information provided by users is processed by the system in accordance with the methods described herein to generate an aggregate visual identifier for the user which may be used to find compatible partners based on the aggregate visual identifier ii brand analysis whereby the system generates an aggregate visual identifier for a product service or brand associated with the product or service with such information being used by the brand owner to manage the reputation of their brand e.g. making changes to the brand in order to move the brand in a preferred direction that would change the visual identifier accordingly and iii using visual identifiers in market analysis scenarios to gauge emotional response to financial transactions e.g. equities markets particular stocks as opposed to financial transactions being made on numbers alone. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous use cases for the methods and systems described herein and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for any appropriate use.

Throughout this disclosure and elsewhere block diagrams and flowchart illustrations depict methods apparatuses i.e. systems and computer program products. Each element of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations as well as each respective combination of elements in the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations illustrates a function of the methods apparatuses and computer program products. Any and all such functions depicted functions can be implemented by computer program instructions by special purpose hardware based computer systems by combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions by combinations of general purpose hardware and computer instructions and so on any and all of which may be generally referred to herein as a circuit module or system. 

While the foregoing drawings and description set forth functional aspects of the disclosed systems no particular arrangement of software for implementing these functional aspects should be inferred from these descriptions unless explicitly stated or otherwise clear from the context.

Each element in flowchart illustrations may depict a step or group of steps of a computer implemented method. Further each step may contain one or more sub steps. For the purpose of illustration these steps as well as any and all other steps identified and described above are presented in order. It will be understood that an embodiment can contain an alternate order of the steps adapted to a particular application of a technique disclosed herein. All such variations and modifications are intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure. The depiction and description of steps in any particular order is not intended to exclude embodiments having the steps in a different order unless required by a particular application explicitly stated or otherwise clear from the context.

Traditionally a computer program consists of a finite sequence of computational instructions or program instructions. It will be appreciated that a programmable apparatus i.e. computing device can receive such a computer program and by processing the computational instructions thereof produce a further technical effect.

A programmable apparatus includes one or more microprocessors microcontrollers embedded microcontrollers programmable digital signal processors programmable devices programmable gate arrays programmable array logic memory devices application specific integrated circuits or the like which can be suitably employed or configured to process computer program instructions execute computer logic store computer data and so on. Throughout this disclosure and elsewhere a computer can include any and all suitable combinations of at least one general purpose computer special purpose computer programmable data processing apparatus processor processor architecture and so on.

It will be understood that a computer can include a computer readable storage medium and that this medium may be internal or external removable and replaceable or fixed. It will also be understood that a computer can include a Basic Input Output System BIOS firmware an operating system a database or the like that can include interface with or support the software and hardware described herein.

Embodiments of the system as described herein are not limited to applications involving conventional computer programs or programmable apparatuses that run them. It is contemplated for example that embodiments of the invention as claimed herein could include an optical computer quantum computer analog computer or the like.

Regardless of the type of computer program or computer involved a computer program can be loaded onto a computer to produce a particular machine that can perform any and all of the depicted functions. This particular machine provides a means for carrying out any and all of the depicted functions.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Computer program instructions can be stored in a computer readable memory capable of directing a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner. The instructions stored in the computer readable memory constitute an article of manufacture including computer readable instructions for implementing any and all of the depicted functions.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

The elements depicted in flowchart illustrations and block diagrams throughout the figures imply logical boundaries between the elements. However according to software or hardware engineering practices the depicted elements and the functions thereof may be implemented as parts of a monolithic software structure as standalone software modules or as modules that employ external routines code services and so forth or any combination of these. All such implementations are within the scope of the present disclosure.

In view of the foregoing it will now be appreciated that elements of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of steps for performing the specified functions program instruction means for performing the specified functions and so on.

It will be appreciated that computer program instructions may include computer executable code. A variety of languages for expressing computer program instructions are possible including without limitation C C Java JavaScript assembly language Lisp HTML and so on. Such languages may include assembly languages hardware description languages database programming languages functional programming languages imperative programming languages and so on. In some embodiments computer program instructions can be stored compiled or interpreted to run on a computer a programmable data processing apparatus a heterogeneous combination of processors or processor architectures and so on. Without limitation embodiments of the system as described herein can take the form of web based computer software which includes client server software software as a service peer to peer software or the like.

In some embodiments a computer enables execution of computer program instructions including multiple programs or threads. The multiple programs or threads may be processed more or less simultaneously to enhance utilization of the processor and to facilitate substantially simultaneous functions. By way of implementation any and all methods program codes program instructions and the like described herein may be implemented in one or more thread. The thread can spawn other threads which can themselves have assigned priorities associated with them. In some embodiments a computer can process these threads based on priority or any other order based on instructions provided in the program code.

Unless explicitly stated or otherwise clear from the context the verbs execute and process are used interchangeably to indicate execute process interpret compile assemble link load any and all combinations of the foregoing or the like. Therefore embodiments that execute or process computer program instructions computer executable code or the like can suitably act upon the instructions or code in any and all of the ways just described.

The functions and operations presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may also be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will be apparent to those of skill in the art along with equivalent variations. In addition embodiments of the invention are not described with reference to any particular programming language. It is appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the present teachings as described herein and any references to specific languages are provided for disclosure of enablement and best mode of embodiments of the invention. Embodiments of the invention are well suited to a wide variety of computer network systems over numerous topologies. Within this field the configuration and management of large networks include storage devices and computers that are communicatively coupled to dissimilar computers and storage devices over a network such as the Internet.

While multiple embodiments are disclosed still other embodiments of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from this detailed description. The invention is capable of myriad modifications in various obvious aspects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Accordingly the drawings and descriptions are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not restrictive.

