---

title: Enhanced detection sensitivity with piezoelectric microcantilever sensors
abstract: A method for enhancing the detection sensitivity of a piezoelectric microcantilever sensor. The method may involve providing a piezoelectric microcantilever and inducing a change in the Young's modulus during detection of a species of interest. The change in the Young's modulus may be induced or enhanced by the application of a DC bias electric field to the piezoelectric layer that enhances non-180° polarization domain switching of the piezoelectric layer. The change in the Young's modulus may also result from binding of the species of interest to the piezoelectric microcantilever sensor or a combination of binding and application of a DC bias electric field. Significantly enhanced detection sensitivity results from the changed Young's modulus of the piezoelectric layer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09488622&OS=09488622&RS=09488622
owner: Drexel University
number: 09488622
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140423
---
This invention was reduced to practice with Government support under Grant No. RO1 EB000720 awarded by the National Institutes of Health the Government is therefore entitled to certain rights to this invention. Some research for this invention was supported by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania s Ben Franklin Technology Development Authority through the Ben Franklin Technology Partners of Southeastern Pennsylvania as fiscal agents for the Nanotechnology Institute.

The invention relates to methods and systems for enhancing the detection sensitivity of piezoelectric microcantilevers. The method of the present invention may be particularly beneficial for biodefense food safety pathogen detection and diagnostic applications involving body fluids such as serum saliva and urine.

Piezoelectric sensor technologies specifically piezoelectric cantilever sensors are useful for detecting the presence and or mass of various compounds and molecules. Typically millimeter sized these cantilever sensors are fabricated by bonding a thick layer of a piezoelectric material such as commercial lead zirconate titanate PZT to a non piezoelectric substrate such as stainless steel titanium or glass and have a number of advantageous properties such as the capability of electrical self excitation and self sensing. Furthermore piezoelectric cantilevers that include an insulation layer are capable of preventing conduction in liquid media rendering them promising for biological in situ electrical detection. Current piezoelectric cantilever sensors however generally lack the desired detection sensitivity necessary for many applications particularly in situ biosensing applications. These sensors typically have poor piezoelectric properties characterized by a low dpiezoelectric coefficient of less than 20 pm v.

The detection sensitivity of piezoelectric cantilever sensors which may be viewed as simple harmonic oscillators is correlated to the resonance frequency shift capability of the sensor. The resonance frequency shift capability in turn is dependent upon the ability to detect changes in the effective spring constant and effective mass of the sensor. Current cantilever sensor technologies such as non piezoelectric microcantilevers and piezoelectric microcantilevers constructed from bulk PZT of relatively large thickness are only useful for methods which detect changes in mass and or minor changes in the effective spring constant of the sensor.

Enhancement of detection sensitivity accuracy and efficiency of piezoelectric cantilever sensors would be useful to the development of numerous industries and technological fields such as bioterrorism defense health sciences and diagnostic devices. Therefore there is a need to develop a piezoelectric microcantilever sensor capable of achieving very high detection sensitivities.

In one aspect the present invention is directed to methods for enhancing detection sensitivity of a piezoelectric microcantilever sensor. One such method involves providing a piezoelectric microcantilever sensor applying a DC bias electric field to the sensor.

In another aspect the method involves providing a piezoelectric microcantilever sensor wherein binding of the species of interest to the sensor induces a significant change in the Young s modulus of the piezoelectric layer.

In another aspect the invention relates to a piezoelectric microcantilever sensor sensing system having enhanced detection sensitivity comprising a piezoelectric microcantilever sensor and a DC bias electric field generation means.

For illustrative purposes the principles of the present invention are described by referencing various exemplary embodiments thereof. Although certain embodiments of the invention are specifically described herein one of ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that the same principles are equally applicable to and can be employed in other apparatuses and methods. Before explaining the disclosed embodiments of the present invention in detail it is to be understood that the invention is not limited in its application to the details of any particular embodiment shown. The terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Further although certain methods are described with reference to certain steps that are presented herein in certain order in many instances these steps may be performed in any order as may be appreciated by one skilled in the art and the methods are not limited to the particular arrangement of steps disclosed herein.

It must be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a sensor includes a plurality of sensors and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art and so forth. As well the terms a or an one or more and at least one can be used interchangeably herein. It is also to be noted that the terms comprising including and having can be used interchangeably.

For purposes of the present invention the terms width mode length mode and thickness mode refer to various modes of use of the sensors for detection. Specifically these modes refer to the direction of the induced stress relative to the cantilever sensor.

Additionally for the purpose of this patent application Q value is defined as the ratio of the resonance frequency to the resonance peak width at half the peak height.

The present invention pertains to various methods and systems for enhancing the detection sensitivity of cantilever sensors particularly piezoelectric microcantilever sensors PEMS which use an electrical means for detection. Specifically the method of the present invention involves providing a PEMS and using the PEMS to detect the presence or mass of a species of interest. It has been found that for certain PEMS sensors a change in the Young s modulus of at least one piezoelectric layer of the PEMS sensor can be induced by the species of interest thereby significantly enhancing the detection sensitivity of the sensor. The method of the present invention enables a PEMS to quickly accurately and efficiently determine the presence and or mass of a species of interest with a high level of detection sensitivity.

In general the effective mass and or the effective spring constant of the piezoelectric layer change as a result of binding of a target species to the PEMS. By monitoring resonance frequency shifts which result from the mass and or spring constant changes the PEMS is capable of rapid label free quantitative detection of various species including pathogens antigens proteins and DNA in a small volume of a sample medium e.g. 100 l or in a cell culture using simple all electrical measurements. The PEMS is capable of electric actuation and detection and may be used to create a PEMS array to enable simultaneous monitoring of multiple target compounds or molecules.

Conductive elements may be any element capable of conducting an electrical signal from the piezoelectric layer to a device for detecting that signal. In a preferred embodiment conductive elements and are electrodes which may be constructed from any conductive material. Preferably the first electrode is constructed from Au Cr or Pt Ti and subsequently patterned in several regions. The second electrode is preferably constructed from Pt TiOon SiOfor PZT SiOPEMS or Pt Ti or Au Cr on a metal substrate or non piezoelectric layer. The electrode may be subsequently patterned.

Receptors may be densely packed and immobilized onto for example any bi functional linker modified sensor surface. Any receptor such as specially synthesized cavitants DNA oligonucleotides proteins single chain variable fragments scFvs enzymes and antibodies to cells antigens or pathogens may be bound to any surface of the sensor. In an exemplary embodiment receptors cover as much of the sensor surface as possible. Preferably receptors cover the major faces of piezoelectric layer and an optional non piezoelectric layer . For example when trying to detect cancer monomeric and dimeric anti tumor scFv molecules which are composed of variable light and heavy chains of antibody molecule anti ECD scFV that react to cancer markers may be employed. Similarly when trying to detect BA antibodies specific to BA spore surface antigens may be employed.

Any means of adhering receptors to a sensor surface may be utilized. In a preferred embodiment receptors may be bound to a surface of the sensor using an immobilization layer such as self assembled monolayers SAM mercaptopropylsilane MPS and bi functional linkers. In one exemplary embodiment for purposes of binding scFv the immobilization coating may be a self assembled monolayer of 3 mercaptoproprionic acid MPA on a copper platinum or gold coated electrode activated with 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylaminopropy carbodimide hydrochloride EDC and 5 mg ml N hydroxysulfosuccinimide NHS .

In one embodiment the piezoelectric microcantilever includes a highly piezoelectric layer which enables electrical detection and actuation within the cantilever. The piezoelectric layer may function as a driving element vibrating element sensing element or a combination thereof. Preferably piezoelectric layer is a driving vibrating and sensing element. Applying an AC voltage input across piezoelectric layer bends and vibrates the PEMS which in turn induces a piezoelectric voltage that produces readily detectable changes in the magnitude and phase of the output voltage. The resonance frequency of the PEMS may be obtained for example by monitoring the maximum of the phase shift of the output voltage. This measurement is accomplished all electrically i.e. electrical actuation and electrical sensing.

Piezoelectric layer may be constructed from any piezoelectric material preferably highly piezoelectric materials such as lead magnesium niobate lead titanate Pb MgNb O PbTiO PMN PT films PMN PT where 0.3

Piezoelectric layer may have any structural configuration or dimension. In one exemplary embodiment piezoelectric layer may be rectangular triangular circular elliptical or any other geometric shape. In another exemplary embodiment the piezoelectric layer has a thicknesses of about 0.5 m to about 250 m more preferably about 0.5 m to about 127 m and most preferably about 0.5 m to about 100 m. Piezoelectric layer may further have a length of about 1 m to about 3 mm and a width of about 1 m to about 3 mm. In yet another exemplary embodiment piezoelectric layer may further have a length of about 10 m to about 3 mm and a width of about 0.5 m to about 3 mm.

Optionally the PEMS may also include at least one non piezoelectric layer which may be fabricated from any compatible material including ceramic polymeric plastic metallic material or a combination thereof. In an exemplary embodiment non piezoelectric layer may be fabricated from silicon dioxide SiO or silicon nitride SiN for PZT thin film based PEMS. In another exemplary embodiment non piezoelectric layer may be fabricated from a metal such as Cu Sn Ni Ti or any combination thereof. Non piezoelectric layer may also have any structural configuration or dimension. In one exemplary embodiment non piezoelectric layer may be rectangular triangular circular elliptical or any other geometric shape. In another exemplary embodiment non piezoelectric layer may have a length of 1 m to about 3 mm a width of about 1 m to about 3 mm and a thickness of about 0.05 m to about 100 m.

The piezoelectric microcantilever of the present invention includes a piezoelectric layer . In another exemplary embodiment the PEMS may include a piezoelectric layer and optionally at least one non piezoelectric layer . Piezoelectric layer and or optional non piezoelectric layer may be attached to a clamp. The microcantilever may have a wide variety of structural configurations. In one exemplary embodiment a piezoelectric layer may be bonded to a non piezoelectric layer that is shorter longer or equal in length. Preferably non piezoelectric layer may be shorter than or extend beyond piezoelectric layer so as to form a cantilever tip. When flexural modes are not used the preferred PEMS need not have a non piezoelectric layer so as to maximize the length mode or width mode resonance frequency shift. In yet another exemplary embodiment a piezoelectric layer may be wider than narrower than or equal in one or more dimensions with respect to non piezoelectric layer .

For applications involving detection in a liquid the PEMS may further include an electrically insulating layer in order to electrically separate or buffer conductive element and second conductive element thereby maintaining functionality by preventing conduction. Conductive element may be patterned slightly smaller than the piezoelectric layer to ensure complete insulation of the edges and corners thereof Any electrically insulating layer may be used as a coating to achieve electrical separation or buffering.

In one embodiment insulating layer may comprise a 1.5 m thick parylene poly para xylylene coating deposited on a conductive element by chemical vapor deposition. When placed in static and 1 ml min flow rate of PBS solution a parylene insulating layer essentially prevents background resonance frequency shifts greater than 30 Hz and 60 Hz respectively over a period of 30 minutes. As a result insulating layer enables complete submersion of the microcantilever for in situ or in liquid detection while maintaining a Q value quality value greater than about 35.

Alternatively a PEMS may be insulated using self assembled monolayers with hydrophobic properties preferably methyltrimethoxysilane MTMS or a combination of MTMS with parylene coatings of varying thicknesses may also be used. When immersed in a PBS solution an MTMS insulated piezoelectric microcantilever yields strong resonance peak intensities and prevents background resonance frequency shifts greater than about 30 Hz over a period of 30 minutes.

Other insulation materials may include AlO SiOand any functional hydrophobic silane having a hydrophobic group selected from the group consisting of alkyl phenyl alkyl halide alkene alkyne and sulfhydryl. In an exemplary embodiment the insulation material is mercaptopropylsilane MPTS which can also function to immobilize a receptor on the cantilever.

The resultant PEMS may be chemically inert thermally stable and preferably miniaturized to enhance sensitivity. In an exemplary embodiment the PEMS has a high detection sensitivity of about 1 10g Hz or better more preferably 1 10g Hz or better and most preferably 1 10g Hz or better. Preferably the PEMS has a detection sensitivity of about 1 10g Hz or better. Preferably the PEMS may be electrically insulated to enable detection in any sample medium including air liquid or solid.

In operation an alternating voltage may be applied to conductive element to drive piezoelectric layer of the self actuating PEMS and a conductive element may be used to detect a shift in the mechanical resonance frequency of the PEMS due to the binding of a target molecule or compound by the receptors. During this process the method of the present invention involves inducing a positive or negative change in the Young s modulus of the piezoelectric layer which is preferably a substantial change in the Young s modulus of the piezoelectric layer. In one exemplary embodiment the change in the Young s modulus may be up to about 70 . The change in the Young s modulus of the piezoelectric layer is preferably greater than about 25 . Most preferably the change in the Young s modulus may be about 25 to about 70 . One of the factors that induces a change in the Young s modulus is non 180 polarization domain switching.

By inducing and or enhancing non 180 polarization domain switching it may be possible to further increase the detection sensitivity of the PEMS in comparison to non piezoelectric or weak piezoelectric microcantilevers of the same dimension. One means for inducing non 180 polarization domain switching may be application of stress produced by the binding of target molecules or compounds. In another exemplary embodiment non 180 polarization domain switching may be induced by exposing the PEMS to a DC bias electric field. The DC bias electric field may be established using any conventional means and may involve applying a DC voltage across a thickness length or width of piezoelectric layer . Preferably the established DC bias electric field E is from about 20 kV cm to about 20 kV cm more preferably from about 10 kV cm to about 10 kV cm and most preferably from about 8 kV cm to about 10 kV cm. A positive value for E denotes an applied electric field that is parallel to the poling direction of the piezoelectric layer. A negative value for E denotes an applied electric field that is opposite to the poling direction of the piezoelectric layer. By establishing a DC bias electric field the flexural frequency shift and hence detection sensitivity may be further increased by a factor of up to about three in comparison to the sensitivity PEMS operated without a DC bias electric field. The DC bias electric field changes the polarization configuration such that it increases polarization domain switching which in turn enhances the resonance frequency shift enabling enhanced detection sensitivity. The degree of detection sensitivity enhancement is dependent upon the piezoelectric material the thickness of the piezoelectric layer whether it is bonded to a non piezoelectric layer the physical properties i.e. thickness and or material characteristics of the non piezoelectric layer and any combination thereof.

The method may further involve enabling detection of a species of interest using any resonance frequency peak and any resonance frequency modes. In an exemplary embodiment the PEMS may be operated in a flexural resonance mode a longitudinal resonance mode such as a length mode a width mode and or a thickness mode or a combination thereof. Preferably the PEMS may be capable of length mode and width mode detection which enables more sensitive detection with high peak frequency intensities and minimized damping effects. More preferably the PEMS is capable of enhanced detection sensitivity using both flexural and longitudinal resonance modes. In an exemplary embodiment the PEMS may be used at resonance frequencies within the range of about 10 kHz to about 10 GHz.

Additionally to further increase sensitivity and expedite the detection process the PEMS may be immersed in a flowing solution for in liquid detection. The PEMS is preferably situated in a flow cell system to enable tailored rapid and simultaneous detection and quantification of multiple organic compounds or molecules.

These PEMS may be used for various sensing applications such as solid liquid transition detectors liquid viscosity and density sensors mass sensors for in situ and in water detection. The PEMS may generally be used to detect molecules compounds biological elements such as DNA proteins viruses cells spores and parasites or combinations thereof.

The PEMS technology may be particularly useful for the detection of bioterrorism agents. Antibody receptors specific to at least one bioterrorism agent may be bound to an electrode and used to detect the presence of a bioterrorism antigen. In addition to identifying the existence of a bioterrorism agent it may also be used to quantify the concentration of the agent.

Additionally PEMS may be useful in the health sciences as a diagnostic instrument. It may be used as a means for early detection of cancers and other diseases. It may also be used to monitor the progress of the disease throughout treatment. The PEMS may be incorporated in a portable device and used as a noninvasive means for testing blood and other bodily fluids for various pathogens infectious agents and other markers indicative of disease.

PEMS may also be particularly applicable for the food science and food manufacturing industry. PEMS may be used as a diagnostic instrument for detecting pathogens or other disease agents present in food supplies and prepared or processed foods. Additionally it may also be useful in manufacturing plants and food service industries as a means of intermittently checking food products during different phases of food preparations thereby preventing contamination and the spread of bacterial or viral diseases such as salmonella and

The effect of a DC bias electric field on the flexural mode resonance frequency shift of a PMN PT tin PEMS having a length of 650 100 m a width of 600 50 m thickness of 14 m was investigated for humidity detection. The PEMS was constructed from an 8 m PMN PT freestanding film bonded to a 6 m tin layer by electroplating. Alternatively the non piezoelectric layer may be fabricated from copper. A 30 nm thick nickel electrode with a 15 nm thick chromium bonding layer was deposited on one side of the PMN PT freestanding film by E beam evaporation Semicore Equipment Livermore Calif. . The tin layer was subsequently electroplated on the nickel electrode and a 150 nm thick gold top electrode was deposited on the other side of the PMN PT film by evaporation. The PMN PT Sn bilayer was then cut and configured as a rectangular strip with a wire saw Princeton Scientific Precision Princeton N.J. . 25 m thick gold wires Kulicke Soffa Willow Grove Pa. were attached to the top and bottom electrodes using conductive glue XCE 3104XL Emerson and Cuming Company Billerica Mass. . The PMN PT Sn strip was then glued to a glass substrate to form a microcantilever and the PEMS was subsequently subjected to poling at 20 kV cm and a temperature of 120 C. on a hotplate for 30 minutes. shows an optical micrograph of the fabricated PEMS and top gold electrode.

The performance of the PEMS was first measured without a DC bias electric field at a constant humidity. Subsequently a DC bias electric field and changes in the relative humidity RH were applied to the PEMS system as means to induce stress and change the Young s modulus of the PEMS. The flexural mode and width mode resonance frequencies and dielectric constants of the PEMS were measured at different DC bias electric field strengths and at different relative humidity levels. Specifically examples were carried out under a DC bias electric field varying from about 9 kV cm to about 9 kV cm and under relative humidity s of from 60 RH to 30 RH.

To measure the effects of relative humidity changes on the resonance frequency the PEMS was placed in a sealed glove box to control relative humidity. A humidifier was then connected to the glove box to first raise the relative humidity RH inside the glove box to 90 . Dry air was then circulated in the glove box to establish the desired humidity level. Prior to measuring resonance frequency the humidity level was allowed to stabilize for period of 5 10 minutes. Throughout the study the temperature inside the glove box was maintained at 23 0.1 C.

As an example shows a graph of phase angle as a function of the resonance frequency spectra of the PEMS at 30 40 50 and 60 RH with a DC bias electric field of 4 kV cm. The resonance frequency increased with a decreasing relative humidity due to desorption of water molecules from the sensor surface.

For purposes of comparison the relative resonance frequency shift due to the mass change of the PEMS from desorption of water molecules was deduced using the PEMS mass change 2 Equation 1 where m wL and M t t wL. and respectively denote the water molecule adsorption density change on the tin surface and on the gold surface. w and L represent the width and length of the PEMS respectively and 7.9 g cmand t 8 m 7.3 g cmand t 6 m represent the density and thickness of the PMN PT tin layer respectively. Using two 10 MHz QCMs one with two gold surfaces and the other with one tin surface and one gold surface it was found that the mass density changed on the tin surface and on the gold surface from 60 RH to 30 RH where 1.3 and 0.4 ng mm respectively. The deduced relative resonance frequency shift f f 8 10 was more than 400 times too small to account for the observed resonance frequency shift of 2.5 10at E 0 and 4 kV cm field and more than 800 times smaller than frequency shift of 6.5 10at E 4 kV cm as shown in . These differences show that adsorption of the species of interest changed the Young s modulus of the PMN PT layer and that application of a negative DC bias electric field further enhanced the change in the Young s modulus providing even better detection sensitivity.

This phenomenon may be explained by comparing the PEMS resonance frequency measurements. In the absence of relative humidity change both the flexural resonance frequency and the dielectric constant varied with application of a DC bias electric field. show the relative resonance frequency shift f E f and relative dielectric constant change E as a function of the applied DC bias electric field E respectively where f E f E f E E and f and f E and E are the resonance frequencies dielectric constant at E 0 an E 0 respectively. The slope of f E f at E 4 kV cm was about 2.5 times that at E 0 and 4 kV cm. In addition E was found to be negative for E 0 and positive when E

The increase in the dielectric as a result of application of an increasingly negative DC bias electric field indicates that application of a negative DC bias electric field switched the polarization from a vertical direction to an in plane direction in this field range as schematically illustrated in II of . These results indicated that the increase in the in plane polarization due to application of a negative DC bias electric field of about 4 kV cm increased the switchability of the polarization domains thereby enhancing the resonance frequency shift in the presence of a negative DC bias electric field. In contrast a positive DC bias electric field decreased the switch ability of polarization domains causing a DC bias electric field induced clamping effect.

The detection sensitivity of the PEMS was also investigated under application of DC bias electric fields ranging from 9 kV cm to 9 kV cm. shows the relative resonance frequency shift as a function of relative humidity under applied DC bias electric fields ranging from 9 to 9 kV cm. As can be seen for relative humidity changes from 60 RH to 30 RH a DC bias electric field of 6 kV cm showed the largest resonance frequency shift of any of the applied DC bias fields including zero.

For comparison shows the resonance frequency shift from 60 RH to 30 RH versus the applied DC bias electric field. As shown in a DC bias field of 6 kV cm produced a relative resonance frequency shift of 0.75 three times that of the zero DC bias electric field resonance frequency shift of 0.25 . Note that the 0.75 relative frequency shift with a DC bias electric field of 6 kV cm was also 1200 times greater than what could be accounted for by mass change alone f f 8 10.

The relationship between a change in Young s modulus and the flexural mode resonance frequency shift was investigated for humidity detection using a PMN PT tin PEMS having a length of 900 100 m a width of 700 50 m and a thickness of 8 m. The PMN PT tin PEMS was constructed from a gold coated 8 m thick PMN PT layer bonded to a 6 m tin layer by electroplating. The two dissimilar surfaces of the PEMS gold and tin caused bending during the humidity detection which was used to quantify detection induced strain. The PEMS of this example is shown in the insert of . To quantify the Young s modulus change in the PMN PT layer a separate PMN PT strip having a length of 900 100 m a width of 700 50 m and a thickness of 8 m wherein both sides of the PMN PT strip are coated with gold was also employed for humidity detection.

From 60 RH to 30 RH it was found that 1.3 and 0.4 ng mm respectively. Therefore f f 8 10 which was 400 times too small to account for the observed resonance frequency shift of 2.5 10from 60 RH to 30 RH as shown in .

In a separate study DC bias electric fields of 1 4 kV cm were applied to the PEMS while the resonance frequency shift f f and the tip displacement d were simultaneously measured where f and f represent the flexural resonance frequency at E 0 and the difference of the resonance at a given E in comparison to E 0 respectively. As shown in an E 0 denotes an electric field parallel to the poling direction of the PMN PT layer. For both f f and d the effect of decreasing the relative humidity from 60 RH to 30 RH was found to have a similar effect as that of changing E from 0 to 3 kV cm. Without wishing to be bound by theory since neither the mass loading effect nor the detection induced strain accounts for the observed f f the similarity between the effect of the change in humidity and the change in the DC bias electric field suggests that both changes in relative humidity and DC bias electric field may cause a change in the Young s modulus of the PMN PT layer.

To examine whether the Young s modulus of the PMN PT layer changed during humidity detection the width mode resonance frequency of a PMN PT strip having cantilever geometry was investigated. To ensure that the lateral stress of the PMN PT strip did not change signs across its thickness the PMN PT strip was coated with two identical gold surfaces such that no bending occurred in the PMN PT strip during humidity detection. Additionally the PMN PT strip did not include a non piezoelectric layer therefore it did not exhibit a flexural mode resonance peak. Insert I of shows an optical micrograph of the PMN PT strip and Insert II of shows the first width mode resonance spectra of the PMN PT strip at 30 RH and 60 RH. As can be seen from the inserts in the width mode resonance frequency changed with the relative humidity.

The width mode resonance frequency f is related to the lateral Young s modulus Y as shown in Equation 2 2 Equation 2 where and w represent the density and width the PMN PT strip. Because

Without wishing to be bound by theory the deduced change in the Young s modulus of the PMN PT layer appears to validate that the Young s modulus change was the underlying mechanism for the PEMS flexural mode resonance frequency shift during the humidity detection. As shown in the deduced Was a function of relative humidity overlapped with the experimental results. further confirms that the flexural resonance frequency shift which provides enhanced detection sensitivity is induced by a change in the Young s modulus of the PMN PT layer. shows f f as a function of average bending strain at the outer surface of the PMN PT layer which is calculated from the axial tip displacement of . The relative resonance frequency shift correlated with the lateral strain regardless of whether the resonance frequency shift was caused by a DC bias electric field or by a change in humidity. Additionally by comparing the change in the Young s modulus appears to be caused by non 180 polarization domain switching as polarization domain pattern changes were observed in piezoresponse force microscopy PFM . A schematic of the polarization domain switching in a DC electric field is shown in . For comparison the average stresses in the PMN PT layer due to the adsorption or desorption of water molecules and due to application of a DC bias electric field were estimated as Yand Y respectively. shows that both and were on the order of MPa and the relative Young s modulus change was about 0.5 per MPa stress in the PMN PT layer which was comparable to the 1 1.5 Young s modulus change per MPa stress reported for unpoled lead zirconate titanate PZT . Without wishing to be bound by theory it appears that the stress effect can induce much larger frequency shifts than predicted by mass loading in chemical and biological detection because surface stress causes a change in the Young s modulus inducing a change in the spring constant of the PEMS. Furthermore a change in the Young s modulus may be induced by non 180 polarization domain switching due to analyte binding and or by application of a DC bias electric field.

It is to be understood however that even though numerous characteristics and advantages of the present invention have been set forth in the foregoing description together with details of the structure and function of the invention the disclosure is illustrative only and changes may be made in detail especially in matters of shape size and arrangement of parts within the principles of the invention to the full extent indicated by the broad general meaning of the terms in which the appended claims are expressed.

