---

title: Optical angular measurement sensors
abstract: Systems that enable observing celestial bodies during daylight or in under cloudy conditions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09341517&OS=09341517&RS=09341517
owner: Wavefront Research, Inc.
number: 09341517
owner_city: Bethlehem
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140317
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 799 699 filed on Mar. 15 2013 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference and for all purposes.

This invention was made with U.S. Government support from the U.S. Marine Corps under Contracts M67854 09 C 6511 and M67854 11 C 6534. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.

These teachings relate generally devices for observing celestial bodies during daylight or nighttime.

There is a need for systems that enable observing celestial bodies during daylight or under cloudy conditions.

The various embodiments of the present teachings disclose systems that enable observing celestial bodies during daylight or in under cloudy conditions.

For a better understanding of the present invention together with other and further objects thereof reference is made to the accompanying drawings and detailed description.

This invention relates in part to devices for observing celestial bodies during daylight or nighttime. This function allows a measure of angles such as azimuth from identifying the positions of these stars or bodies. One term for labeling many of the embodiments of these inventions is Optical Azimuth Sensor or OAS.

In order to understand the expected operation of the optical azimuth sensor during bright sunlight conditions it is necessary to consider the optics of the sky. In planets or the moon without an atmosphere the sky is black both at nighttime and during daylight. On such a planet conventional celestial navigation and the optical azimuth sensor would clearly function well both at night and during the day. On Earth however the atmosphere scatters sunlight and as a result during daytime the sky is bright and blue. Other than in clouds where the scatterers are relatively large droplets of water many of the scatterers in the atmosphere are very small compared to the wavelength of light and the resulting scatter is described very accurately as a Raleigh Scattering phenomenon. In Raleigh scattering the amount of light scattered increases very rapidly as the wavelength of the incident light decreases i.e. blue light is scattered much more strongly than red light. This is why the sky appears blue.

Quantitatively in the Raleigh Scattering regime light is scattered in proportion to the inverse of the fourth power of the wavelength. Visible light covers a spectral band from 0.4 m blue to 0.7 m red . Red light at that wavelength is scattered by a factor of 9.37 or nearly 10 times less than blue light of that wavelength. In other words if an instrument were to look at the sky through a blue filter that passed 0.4 m wavelength light and then through a red filter that passed 0.7 m wavelength light the sky would look roughly 10 times brighter through the blue filter than through the red filter.

Standard silicon CCD s or silicon focal plane arrays are sensitive to wavelengths out to about 1 m. This is illustrated by spectral sensitivity curve in . Light with wavelengths of 1 m is scattered 40 times less than blue light.

Standard InGaAs focal plane arrays are sensitive to wavelengths up to 1.7 m illustrated in spectral sensitivity curve of which are scattered 326 times less than blue light. Modified InGaAs focal plane arrays are sensitive to wavelengths out to 2.5 m shown by spectral sensitivity curves and of and these wavelengths are scattered roughly more than 1525 times less than blue light.

Thus by imaging the sky using a focal plane array through a filter in the infrared at a band of wavelengths near 1.7 m the sky will be roughly 326 times darker than imaging the sky in the visible using blue light. In a more extreme example long wave infrared LWIR light near 14 m may be scattered roughly a million times less strongly than blue light.

The light from stars however is imaged directly through the atmosphere sky and so the star light is essentially just as bright at a given wavelength as it is at nighttime. The spectral dependency of the starlight as a function of wavelength roughly follows a black body curve such as curve in for a 6000 degree Kelvin black body representing roughly a 6000 degree Kelvin star and so there is a small roll off in intensity in the infrared e.g. a decrease of roughly a factor of 2 from the peak irradiance at 0.5 m to the irradiance at 1.0 m but this is very small in comparison with the decrease in sky brightness in the infrared .

Further understanding of the embodiments and expected OAS daylight operation comes from comparing the sky brightness in daytime and nighttime. One can see the bright reference stars as the morning sky brightens until nearly sunrise. At sunrise on a clear day the ambient illuminance is roughly 40 lux. The illuminance from a clear blue sky at midday is roughly 20 000 lux. In other words for an observer the illuminance of this sky is roughly 500 times brighter at midday than at sunrise. Therefore if the OAS images the stars under a bright daylight sky at a wavelength band centered at 1.7 m the starlight will be weaker by roughly a factor near 3 due to blackbody roll off but the sky will be darker by a factor of 325. If an observer s eye was sensitive to the 1.7 micron infrared wavelength the stars may be plainly visible against a fairly dark sky.

The situation is even better though since using a focal plane array in the OAS the point images of the stars can be more readily identified from a significant background by subtracting the uniform background and so embodiments of the OAS operate effectively using simple silicon CCDs at a wavelength near 1 m or even shorter. The visibility of the weaker stars is limited in large part by the background noise e.g. shot noise compared to the signal of the faint star.

There are many significant advantages that arise from the OAS technical innovation proposed here including 

The operation of the OAS system was demonstrated by building a simple OAS system using a compact IR camera and IR bandpass filters. The performance and star image contrast ratios was measured at a variety of center wavelengths.

The technical innovation in the novel Optical Azimuth Sensor OAS includes that it uses a compact low power novel optical system to accurately measure azimuth by identifying the positions of key reference stars or other celestial bodies such as planets the moon or sun in bright daylight hazy as well as nighttime conditions. The essence of this novel OAS azimuth sensor is a miniature wide field spectrally optimized imager that images the sky onto a high performance focal plane array. A polar star such as the North Star in the northern hemisphere other key bright reference stars or other bodies can be used to accurately determine True North. Utilizing techniques developed in this program full functionality of this optical azimuth sensor OAS system is also expected during bright sunlight conditions through one or more of a variety of modes as described below.

Detecting celestial objects in daylight to extend celestial navigation to daylight hours is accomplished using the OAS. As described above a major component of background light hiding stars during daylight is due to Rayleigh scattering that is very strongly weighted spectrally toward short wavelengths by the fourth power of inverse wavelength . By imaging stars at longer wavelengths filtering out the shorter wavelength highly scattered light the weak starlight is seen against a much darker scatter background as shown in .

The principle of operation of the OAS is illustrated in . The top image in represents a color image of a star at dawn. Image is the blue component of color image . Image is the green component of color image . Image is the red longer wavelength component of color image . Thus the color image is broken into its blue green and red channels in the three component images bottom . The background scattered light is greatly reduced as the wavelength increases as evidenced by the background becoming much darker. Wavelength bands in the red and longer infrared spectral regions are being targeted for daylight tracking of celestial bodies. Further enhancement can be obtained by subtracting the uniform background.

When background scatter is sufficiently reduced another background component called airglow can be significant as shown in where solar spectrum is compared to airglow spectrum . Airglow is a background electromagnetic radiation that is emitted in the upper atmosphere. One source of airglow is luminescence caused when cosmic rays impinge on the upper atmosphere. The sun also creates ions through photoionization which recombine over time and contribute to airglow. Another contribution to airglow is hydroxyl ions reacting with oxygen and nitrogen in the upper atmosphere. Many other mechanisms contribute to airglow during daytime and nighttime conditions. It is apparent in that spectral gaps or windows exist where there is little airglow flux e.g. 675 680 nm. . Positioning daytime starlight observations in spectral windows devoid of airglow will further enhance the signal to noise of the star images particularly during the day. In optimizing the OAS operation edgepass and bandpass filters can be used to take advantage of both long wavelengths for low scatter background and airglow spectral windows for low emission background.

Airglow spectral features continue into the infrared. By imaging light from targeted celestial bodies at wavelengths in airglow windows with weak or no emission the signal to noise in celestial body detection can be further enhanced. Figure reproduced with permission from L. Cowley www.atoptics.co.uk .

Selecting optimum stars for Optical Azimuth Sensor use offers further OAS system benefits. One of these is Sirius visually the brightest star with an apparent magnitude of 1.47. An increase of 1 in apparent magnitude corresponds to roughly a decrease in intensity of a factor of 2.5. In another example the North Star Polaris apparent magnitude 2.01 is useful in the northern hemisphere since it is nearly fixed in position throughout the day and night. Polaris effectively rotates daily in a small circle only 0.7 from the pole axis and so defines the True North azimuth accurately twice a day and is readily corrected using look up tables stored in the OAS. Other objects are also advantageous in varying OAS scenarios. For example the Red Super Giant star Betelgeuse Magnitude 0.58 has many desirable characteristics. First its emission surface is cooler than most other stars and so it emits preferentially in the longer wavelengths advantageous for OAS application . At the same time although it is not as luminous as many other stars at its emission surface it is a supergiant star so there is a huge area radiating into its unresolved image producing in effect a large apparent brightness as seen from Earth. This combination of high luminosity and long wavelength red peak emission can be very useful as a OAS reference. Further its direction is nearly perpendicular to the Earth s axis so its image translates on a focal plane at a relatively high rate as the Earth rotates. This translation across focal plane pixels can also be useful in discriminating the star from background noise. This scenario would lend itself to a SIMD processor which can efficiently process such images from nearest neighbor operations.

Other Celestial Objects. In addition or combination with images of stars images of planets the moon or the sun also form the basis of robust OAS configurations. For example imaging the planets are similar to the stars but they can be brighter and in some cases are resolved have more than one resolution cell across their image . For example the apparent magnitudes of these objects are the Moon 129 Venus 4.6 Jupiter 2.9 Mars 2.9 Mercury 1.9 and Saturn 0.2 . The moon and the sun also offer some interesting OAS configurations. The Sun can be imaged at long IR wavelengths including the bands described earlier through the Very Long Wave IR VLWIR some of which pass readily through clouds as the wavelengths approach and become larger than the water droplets. Such an OAS system could is very useful for overcast situations where some other OAS configurations may be less or not effective. As with the stars accurate location of the suns image as it tracks can be accurately correlated with direction and high accuracy can be obtained with internally stored reference data and an accurate clock calendar.

Still other OAS embodiments use other filtering approaches such as narrow spectral filters in the Frauenhofer spectrum where the daylight is actually dark in narrow absorption bands in daylight In this embodiment the dark absorption lines e.g. the Frauenhofer Spectrum superposed on the solar continuum are excellent places to detect reference stars which may be frequency shifted into the dark lines due to their motion in space. These features are typically very narrow however and narrow spectral filters can enable such embodiments of the OAS.

Reference is now made to . Images and in are photographs of Venus apparent magnitude of 4.36 taken in the spectral band from 0.85 1.0 microns under the 4 sky conditions 1 before dawn 2 during dawn 3 near sunrise and 4 well after sunrise respectively. These four images contain background components and respectively and Venus images and respectively. The sky was dark enough in images and to support longer exposures and the image was heavily exposed and translation of Venus is visible during the exposures. As the sky brightened near sunrise the exposures were shorter and the background from the sky was more intense. However even well after sunrise image the image of Venus is clearly visible and readily detected even without processing and background subtraction. When image was taken Venus could not be visually found in the sky.

It is advantageous for the OAS devices to be able to function in the midst of haze and smoke and ideally even in the presence of partial or full cloud cover. As the wavelength of the light imaged grows larger than the scatterers the ability to image through the scatterers improves. While cloud particle size distributions seem to vary widely with cloud type one measurement on Stratus clouds indicated that the water fraction and droplet size vary and fall off toward the cloud top and bottom with a peak in the 5 6 micron effective radius. Embodiments of the OAS operating at long IR wavelengths up to and through the VLWIR described earlier may be additionally useful for OAS operation through clouds. In one such OAS embodiment the sun is a key element. The sun emits light roughly according to a blackbody curve and although its emission falls off at longer IR wavelengths and the atmosphere and clouds absorb a fraction of the light enough light may be transmitted through the clouds at long wavelengths to clearly image the solar disk. For example there is a transmission band in the atmosphere from 16 to 24 microns and at 17.8 microns more than 40 percent of light is transmitted through a 1 km horizontal air path at sea level and 46 relative humidity at 15 C. As the imaged disk of the sun translates across several pixels in an uncooled focal plane array such as a microbolometer array the location and direction of the sun can be determined and utilized to define azimuth.

In addition to azimuth sensing WRI is investigating the accuracy attainable in novel optical self locating techniques related to the OAS device. For example relative positions of near and far objects such as satellites the moon planets and the sun and other stars can be utilized together with an accurate clock in software to extract location.

In other embodiments based on man made celestial objects of the present teachings for OAS azimuth sensing self location and additional functions is described here. These embodiments include a modest constellation of miniature reflecting satellites such as reflecting spheres or more complex structures but passive and insensitive to solar flares and attack that are placed in near earth far or geosynchronous orbits to provide optical reference signals. These orbiting optical references could be spherical or curved reflective sections that are oriented to illuminate the earth below and could readily exceed the intensities of bright stars. In a more elaborate limit small passive retro reflecting corner cube reflector satellites can be put in orbit and interrogated optically in embodiments of an optical GPS alternative that is not jammable. Even relatively simple nanosecond scale pulses from an advanced. OAS and timing circuits can give accuracies on the order of feet. Active reference satellites containing optical emitters including infrared midwave and longwave infrared and even VLWIR emitters can be used. These emitters include without limitation lasers LEDs SLEDs resonators etc.

Reference is now made to which includes four time sequential images and of Venus taken in broad daylight through a filter passing the 1.3 to 1.7 spectral IR band and imager and an InGaAs Focal Plane Array. This sequence of images and are co registered as Venus moved across the sky.

Reference is now made to . Using another OAS embodiment Venus was photographed in daylight using a filter transmitting the 0.9 1.0 micron IR spectral band using a silicon focal plane array. The resulting image of Venus contains background component and Venus image .

A detail of this image is shown in image of and contains background and Venus image . This photo was taken a bit more than half an hour after sunrise. In the corresponding color image taken in the visible band at nearly the same time the image of Venus was not visible.

Reference is made to which contains image of the star Betelgeuse photographed during full daylight using the longer wavelength half of the Near Infra Red NIR spectral band. Image contains background and Betelgeuse image and is the sum of 256 images taken in rapid succession which lowers the background noise.

Reference is now made to which includes the sum of 256 broad daylight images taken in rapid succession of Betelgeuse taken in the narrower spectral band of roughly 50 nm surrounding one micron. The location of the center of the star image can be interpolated with a precision of less than a pixel giving rise to expected azimuth accuracies of less than 1 mil for common silicon FPAs containing several megapixels.

Reference is made to which includes the sum of 256 broad daylight images taken in rapid succession of Aldebaran in the same narrow spectral band around one micron. Cooler stars such as Betelgeuse are relatively brighter in the NIR than those spectrally weighted toward shorter wavelengths.

Reference is now made to which contains image of the star Betelgeuse taken in broad daylight with an imager of entrance pupil diameter equal to 20 mm. The star image is on background . This is compared to image of which contains image of Betelgeuse on background but this time using the same imager but with entrance pupil diameter of 2.5 mm.

When this same star is imaged through an much smaller lens aperture the SNR naturally decreases but it does so gracefully.

Reference is made to where the SNR is shown for a number of decreasing aperture sizes. The signal to noise ratio decreases as the entrance pupil diameter of the imager decreases but in a graceful fashion. This data shows that OAS operation can be extended to broad daylight using optimized imagers that are very small.

Various embodiments of OAS sensors use imagers with different fields of view. Narrow field of view may allow for detection of dimmer stars while larger fields of view have a greater chance of including brighter stars in the field. Balancing these trade offs results in an optimized widefield imager typically ranging from 15 to 120 field of view. In some embodiments of the OAS extremely wide field of view imagers may be used. Image shows the night sky through a fisheye imager with field of view larger than 180 . This image shows celestial images and as well as non celestial objects such as house .

There is a large body of art and science to celestial navigation and in general these techniques can be implemented with great precision and in daylight using the OAS sensor. The OAS can establish the location of the celestial sphere with high precision and in full daylight and can be used for self location. Reference is now made to with illustration that contains the earth center surrounded by a Celestial Sphere . The celestial sphere is a conceptual surface on which the fixed stars are projected. As the Earth rotates the celestial sphere exhibits an apparent rotation with respect to an observer on Earth. The OAS system accurately locates the celestial sphere orientation even during daylight thus providing a highly accurate azimuth elevation and self location sensing capability. In another embodiment of the OAS the OAS sensor includes a highly accurate electronic normal vertical vector sensor such as an accelerometer that is used to extract the local earth coordinates from the sensed celestial sphere. Figure from Reference 2 .

In other embodiments of the present teachings for OAS sensors self location and other functions are also provided. As discussed earlier some embodiments include a modest constellation of miniature reflecting satellites such as reflecting spheres or more complex structures but passive and insensitive to solar flares and attack and jamming that are placed in near earth far or geosynchronous orbits to provide optical reference signals. This is illustrated by bright points on the celestial sphere shown on celestial sphere . These orbiting optical references could be spherical or curved reflective sections that are oriented to illuminate the earth below and could readily exceed the intensities of bright stars. In a more elaborate limit small passive retro reflecting corner cube reflector satellites can be put in orbit and interrogated optically in embodiments of an optical OPS alternative that is not jammable. Even relatively simple nanosecond scale pulses from an advanced OAS and timing circuits can give rise to accuracies on the order of feet. Other embodiments of such artificial reference satellites include active optical emitters which emit light toward the earth from their specific reference location in orbit. Any optical wavelength can be used for such emitters which can include without limitation lasers LEDs SLEDs etc. For the case of narrowband emitters narrowband filters can be used in OAS sensor embodiments to greatly reduce background light and enhance artificial reference celestial object detectability and OAS operation.

In other embodiments of the present teachings to an observer on Earth the celestial sphere rotates during day and night with a period of 24 hours. The OAS embodiments equipped with an accurate clock can accurately determine information such as position from the accurately located celestial sphere orientation that the OAS sensor can determine even during daylight thus providing a highly accurate azimuth sensing capability. The position of the celestial sphere is accurately calculable for a given time and location on Earth. Alternatively if the OAS sensor is used to determine the position of the celestial sphere and a normal vector pointing from the center of the earth through the observers location such as from a vertical sensor like an accelerometer is accurately known then the observers location on Earth is calculable.

In another embodiment of the OAS sensor described above the sun is imaged at any wavelength and can be used to determine celestial sphere orientation azimuth elevation etc. in such embodiments that operate at increasing wavelengths the sun s image can be sharply obtained through denser and heavier cloud cover. If the wavelengths used are much larger than the diameter of the cloud particles they will not be scattered as visible light is and the sun should is clearly imageable through the clouds. A compact inexpensive microbolometer focal plane array can be used for extracting the sun s positional data.

References made to which contains longwave infrared image taken with a microbolometer array showing a clouded sky to and the image of the sun s disk visible through the light clouds. The sun imaged in in the Long Wave Infra Red LWIR band using wavelengths from 7 14 microns. In various embodiments of the OAS the position of the sun s disk can be used together with an accurate clock to identify the orientation of the celestial sphere. In an alternative embodiment of thru cloud OAS operation the sun is imaged at long wavelengths onto the focal plane. Over a short period of time the disk edge of the sun sweeps across the focal plane and accurately defines the trajectory of the sun. This trajectory is used to determine azimuth.

Reference is now made to . contains visible band image of the sky and longwave infrared band image of the same region of the sky. The visible image shows a bright sky against dark trees while the longwave image shows a dark sky against bright trees . The sky is generally dark in the IR although the cloud shown is still visible. Different clouds exhibit vastly differing water droplet sizes. For clouds with micron sized water droplets this band may be effective for viewing the sun through them. There are longer wavelength spectral windows transmitted by the atmosphere and they can be used for OAS operation with larger droplet sized clouds.

Reference is now made to . contains visible image of the sky with the sun and trees . also contains longwave infrared image of sky and some entries . The sky is visibly darker in the longwave band in the disk of the sun is clearly visible.

Reference is made to which illustrates OAS module including housing and imager aperture . The OAS module contains the specially optimized imager focal plane array and electronic processor is described earlier in this embodiment the OAS module is targeted to occupy roughly a 1 to 2 cube.

Reference is made to which shows an embodiment of the OAS that images the sun s disk through clouds. includes visible image including cloudy sky and bright region obscuring the sun s disk. Visible band Image is a shorter exposure version of image and shows cloudy sky and bright cloudy region obscuring the sun s disk. The darker exposure of image reveals that no image of the sun s disk is visible through the clouds in the visible spectral band. Longwave infrared spectral band image taken with a microbolometer focal plane array shows cloudy sky and clear image of the sun s disk . This shows operation of OAS embodiments based on imaging the sun s disk that are operable through moderate cloud cover. OAS operation through heavier cloud cover can be obtained by operating the OAS and even longer spectral wavelength bands such as in the V LWIR described earlier. In the images of regions and are regions of the images inside the room next to the window through which the sky was photographed.

Reference is now made to which shows schematically an embodiment of the OAS of the present teachings. Here optical subsystem contains a spectrally optimized imager as described above. Also as described above bandpass filters and edge pass filters can be used to achieve the desired spectral optimization. The imager is used to image the sky onto focal plane array . Due to the inherent spectral sensitivity of the focal plane array it also further acts as a spectral filter. Computing or processing element receives the image from the focal plane and produces angular and navigational information such as azimuth from the image positions of celestial objects.

As used herein the singular forms a an and the include the plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Except where otherwise indicated all numbers expressing quantities of ingredients reaction conditions and so forth used in the specification and claims are to be understood as being modified in all instances by the term about. 

For the purpose of better describing and defining the present invention it is noted that terms of degree e.g. substantially about and the like may be used in the specification and or in the claims. Such terms of degree are utilized herein to represent the inherent degree of uncertainty that may be attributed to any quantitative comparison value measurement and or other representation. The terms of degree may also be utilized herein to represent the degree by which a quantitative representation may vary e.g. 10 from a stated reference without resulting in a change in the basic function of the subject matter at issue.

Although embodiments of the present teachings have been described in detail it is to be understood that such embodiments are described for exemplary and illustrative purposes only. Various changes and or modifications may be made by those skilled in the relevant art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined in the appended claims.

