---

title: Dynamical time division duplex uplink and downlink configuration in a communications network
abstract: A technology is disclosed for a user equipment (UE) that is operable to dynamically change an uplink/downlink (UL/DL) configuration in a communications network. A radio resource control (RRC) connection can be requested with an enhanced node B (eNode B). A UE Capability Information information element (IE) can be communicated to the eNode B to indicate an enhanced interference mitigation and traffic adaptation (eIMTA) capability of the UE to support an eIMTA time duplex domain (TDD) UL/DL reconfiguration functionality. An eIMTA configuration information can be received at the UE information within a RRCConnectionSetup message or a RRCConnectionReconfiguration message.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09591653&OS=09591653&RS=09591653
owner: INTEL IP CORPORATION
number: 09591653
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140408
---
This application claims the benefit of and hereby incorporates by reference U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 859 121 filed Jul. 26 2013.

In wireless communications systems downlink and uplink transmissions may be organized into two duplex modes frequency division duplex FDD mode and time division duplex TDD mode. The FDD mode uses a paired spectrum where a gap in frequency domain is used to separate uplink UL and downlink DL transmissions. In TDD systems an unpaired spectrum may be used where both UL and DL are transmitted over the same carrier frequency. The UL and DL are separated in non overlapped time slots in the time domain.

Third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE TDD homogeneous systems operate synchronously in order to avoid UL DL inter cell interference between base stations or nodes such as enhanced Node Bs eNode Bs and or mobile terminals such as user equipment UEs . A geographic region served by an eNode B is commonly referred to as a cell. Cells in a network typically use the same UL DL configuration for synchronous operation of the LTE TDD homogeneous systems. The UL DL configuration includes frame configuration and UL DL resource allocation within one radio frame. Additionally the network can use the UL DL configuration to align frame transmission boundaries in time. The synchronous operation can be effective to mitigate interference. However the synchronous operation is not optimized for traffic adaptation and can significantly degrade packet throughput for small cells in a heterogeneous network HetNet .

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

Mobile devices are increasingly equipped with multiple radio access technologies multi RAT that can connect to and choose among the different types of radio technologies including cellular technologies that use licensed portions of the radio spectrum and wireless local area network WLAN and personal area network PAN technologies that typically use unlicensed portions of the radio spectrum.

In homogeneous networks a base station or macro node can provide basic wireless coverage to mobile devices within the node coverage i.e. the cell . Heterogeneous networks HetNets were introduced to handle the increased traffic loads on the macro nodes due to increased usage and functionality of mobile devices.

A HetNet can be comprised of multiple types of radio access nodes and or radio access technologies in a wireless network. HetNets can include macro nodes such as enhanced node Bs eNBs or base stations BSs overlaid with layers of small nodes or cells such as micro nodes pico nodes femto nodes home nodes relay stations WiFi access points APs and so forth. The small nodes also referred to as low power nodes can be deployed in a non uniform or uncoordinated manner within the coverage area of the macro nodes i.e. the cell . The macro nodes can be used for basic coverage and the small nodes can be used to fill coverage holes to improve capacity in hot zones or at the boundaries between the coverage areas of the macro nodes and improve indoor coverage where building structures impede signal transmission. depicts a multi RAT HetNet in a macro cell with a macro node overlaid with layers of lower power nodes or small nodes including micro nodes pico nodes femto nodes and WiFi APs or other types of WLAN nodes or PAN nodes.

High demand for increased throughput by UEs can be satisfied by deploying a cluster of small nodes to provide an acceptable quality of service QoS for the UEs. In one embodiment dense clusterization of small nodes can be used at hotspots for providing closer serving nodes to more UEs for increased network capacity. As the number of small nodes deployed in a given area increases the inter small node interference can increase. As inter small node interference reaches a threshold limit there is an upper bound constraint on the number of small nodes that can be deployed in a hotspot area.

Traditionally the disadvantage of the high density deployment or clusterization of small nodes is the level of inter small node interference e.g. the level of interference that occurs between multiple small nodes in a dense area. The inter small node interference decreases the signal to noise ratio SNR and or the signal to interference plus noise ratio SINR between UEs and small nodes resulting in lower or decreased UE throughput.

In a wireless communications system such as a third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE system downlink DL and uplink UL transmissions can be organized into two duplex modes frequency division duplex FDD mode and time division duplex TDD mode. An FDD mode can use a paired spectrum where a gap in frequency domain is used to separate uplink UL transmissions from downlink DL transmissions. illustrates of a UL and DL subframe separated in the frequency domain for the FDD mode. In TDD systems an unpaired spectrum may be used where both UL and DL are transmitted over the same carrier frequency. The UL transmissions and DL transmissions are separated in the non overlapping time slots in the time domain. illustrates UL and DL subframes sharing a carrier frequency in the TDD mode. As used herein the term UL DL is intended to refer to the uplink and the downlink.

A wireless communications system can operate synchronously in order to avoid UL DL inter cell interference between base stations such as eNode Bs and or mobile terminals such as UEs. Cells in a wireless communications system can use the same UL DL configuration for a synchronous operation of the wireless communications system. The UL DL configuration can include a frame configuration and UL DL resource allocations.

The usage of a same frame configuration in a HetNet deployment scenario can degrade a quality of service QoS for a UE in the communications network. Data traffic in HetNet scenarios can vary over time domains or cell domains. For example a selected set of cells can have varied dominant traffic in either the DL transmission direction or the UL transmission direction over time. The dominant traffic transmission direction can use more spectrum resources than the non dominant transmission direction to improve the QoS and systematic throughput performance for a lower or medium traffic load. In HetNet deployment scenarios because small cells are closer in proximity to the end users the level of isolation between eNode Bs is higher so that a large portion of eNode Bs can be considered isolated cells. Isolated cells are cells with small nodes that create relatively low levels of inter cell interference with other small nodes in a macro cell.

In one embodiment each small node in the isolated cells can dynamically configure or reconfigure the UL DL configuration of the small node to adapt to changing real time data traffic conditions or instantaneous data traffic conditions within the serving cell. In another embodiment each small node in isolated cells can dynamically configure or reconfigure the UL DL configuration of the small node by using cyclic redundancy check CRC parity bits scrambled with a TDD Config RNTI assigned for eIMTA operation. In one embodiment signaling options such as a system information block SIB paging a radio resource control RRC medium access control MAC signaling and or L signaling can be used for support of UL DL reconfiguration in different traffic adaptation time scales. For example L signaling can be used for UL DL reconfiguration as a robust signaling option with lower control overhead and shorter latency.

In one embodiment blinding decoding can be used with selected signaling options such as L signaling. In another embodiment a DCI format such as a physical downlink control channel PDCCH can be used to signal a carrier independent UL DL configuration information for each serving cell. illustrate DCI formats used to indicate a carrier independent UL DL configuration. The DCI formats such as PDCCH in include TDD UL DL Configuration Indicator Fields CIFs for selected UL DL configuration. depicts a DCI format such as PDCCH for a single component carrier CC supporting dynamic UL DL reconfiguration. depicts a DCI format such as PDCCH used for a multi CCs supporting dynamic UL DL reconfiguration. In one embodiment a DCI format can be used for a CoMP scenario to achieve independent UL DL configuration for each Transmission Point TP .

In one embodiment the network can be configured to order a DCI signal for traffic adaption in a TDD system. In one embodiment a unified DCI format for carrying UL DL configuration information can be dynamically updated and transmitted at selected time intervals. For example the DCI format can be dynamically updated every 10 millisecond. In another embodiment the DCI format can enable independent UL DL configuration for each serving cell in for selected deployment scenarios. The selected deployment scenarios can include a single carrier scenario a cooperative multiple point CoMP scenario such as CoMP scenario or a CoMP scenario a carrier aggregation CA scenario and a CoMP scenario with CA enabled on remote radio heads RRHs such as a combination of CA and CoMP scenario.

In one embodiment the DCI format X can include a set of TDD UL DL Configuration Indicator TCI fields 1 2 . . . N where N is signaled by the eNode B within RRC signaling for each eIMTA enabled UE. In another embodiment the DCI format X can include a set of TDD UL DL Configuration Indicator TCI fields 1 2 . . . N where N can calculated by the UE using

In one embodiment when the total bits number of N TCI fields is less than the selected DCI format size Y on CSS or

In one embodiment information bit s with a predefined value of either 0 or 1 can be appended to DCI format X until the payload size equals that of a DCI format Y. In one embodiment the information bits can be appended to a DCI format X until the payload size of the DCI format X equals a payload size of the DCI format Y where the number of bits of the DCI format Y is bandwidth dependent. illustrates an exemplary embodiment of the DCI format for UL DL configuration indications. In one embodiment the DCI format Y can be a DCI format 0 1A 3 3A that can be transmitted on a CSS of a PDCCH. In another embodiment the DCI format Y can be a DCI format 1C that can be transmitted on a CSS of a PDCCH.

In another embodiment M can be 2. shows a table depicting a coding of 2 bit TCI code words used for a TDD UL DL configuration indication. For a 2 bit TCI the UL subframes according to the TDD UL DL configuration indicated in a system information block type 1 SIB1 message can be configured as flexible subframes FlexSF . In one embodiment for a 2 bit TCI the UL DL reconfiguration can be invisible to legacy UEs and can enable avoiding a negative impact on a radio resource management RRM measurement of legacy UEs. One advantage of using a 2 bit TCI can be to reduce control overhead of a communications network. In one embodiment for each TDD UL DL configuration indicated in a SIB1 message a set of UL DL configuration associated with the 2 bit TCI field can be defined for UL DL reconfiguration indication.

In one embodiment an information element IE can be a TDD PDCCH Config where the TDD PDCCH Config can be used to specify the RNTI s and index es used for flexible UL DL configuration indications. In one embodiment the TDD UL DL re configuration function can be setup or released with the IE. In another embodiment the IE can be a TDD Config RNTI where the TDD Config RNTI can be an RNTI for a TDD UL DL configuration indication using DCI format X. In another embodiment the IE can be a TDD Config Index with an index of K. The TDD Config Index can be a parameter used to indicate an index to the TDD UL DL configuration field in a DCI format X associated with a serving cell of an eIMTA enabled UE. In one example K can be 16.

In one embodiment the IE can be a PhyLayerParameters v1240 where the PhyLayerParameters v1240 indicates a UE capability of TDD UL DL reconfiguration. The PhyLayerParameters v1240 can be defined as 

In another embodiment the IE can be a TDD configuratioin r12 where the TDD configuratioin r12 indicates whether the UE supports a TDD UL DL reconfiguration capability.

Steps of show the steps for a RRC connection establishment procedure to transfer the parameters for the TDD UL DL reconfiguration capability between an eIMTA capable UE and an EUTRAN. In Step the UE can send an RRCConnectionRequest to the EUTRAN . In Step when the EUTRAN receives the UE capability of eIMTA support based on a flexible TDD UL DL configuration an IE TDD PDCCH Config can be included in a RRCConnectionSetup message. In one embodiment the RRCConnectionSetup message can include RadioResourceConfigDedicated information PhysicalConfigDedicated information and or TDD PDCCH Config information. In one embodiment when the TDD PDCCH Config IE is not included in the RRCConnectionSetup message the UE can follow a TDD UL DL configuration procedure as indicated in a system information block 1 SIB1 for Data transmission and reception. In step the UE can send the EUTRAN an RRCConnectionComplete message. In step the UE can decode the PDCCH for DCI format X detection when the UE receives the TDD PDCCH Config message including a TDD Config RNTI message and a TDD Config Index message. In one embodiment the UE can follow the associated TDD UL DL configurations indicated in the DCI format X. In another embodiment the UE can follow TDD UL DL configuration indicated in a SIB1.

Step shows for an SCell in a CA scenario the E UTRAN can use dedicated signaling to provide a TDD PDCCH Config IE to the UE that supports TDD UL DL reconfiguration when adding the SCell. When the UE receives the TDD PDCCH Config UE can monitor a PDCCH with a DCI format X where the CRC is scrambled by the assigned TDD Config RNTI. Additionally when the UE receives TDD PDCCH Config the UE can obtain a UL DL configuration for the associated serving cell upon receiving DCI format X on a PDCCH according to the TDD Config Index. Step shows the UE sending the EUTRAN an RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete message.

In one embodiment step step and step can occur for a UE capable of both Carrier Aggregation CA and eIMTA support when eIMTA is used in the added Secondary Cell SCell . In one embodiment in step for each SCell when the UE receives a TDD PDCCH Config message in the configuration of one SCell in Step the UE can determine the UL DL configuration by decoding the associated TCI field in DCI format X for this SCell. In one embodiment the TDD PDCCH Config message can include the TDD Config RNTI message and the TDD Config Index message. In another embodiment in step the UE can determine the UL DL configuration upon receiving DCI format X according to the received TDD Config r10 IE of a RadioResourceConfigCommonSCell r10 for the SCell. In one embodiment when no TDD Config RNTI is received the UE can monitor and decode the PDCCH following a UL DL configuration indicated in SIB1.

In one embodiment the DCI format X can be transmitted using a UE specific search space USS on a PDCCH or an enhanced PDCCH EPDCCH . The PDCCH or the EPDCCH can be determined by an assignment TDD Config RNTI configured by higher layer signaling as shown in . In one embodiment the location of multiple USSs associated with different RNTI can be on a PCell. In another embodiment the location of multiple USSs associated with different RNTI can be on each serving cell that the UL DL configuration targets as indicated in the DCI format X.

In one embodiment a UE group common search space on a PDCCH can be associated with an assigned radio network temporary identifier RNTI value. For example the RNTI value can be a TDD Config RNTI. For each serving cell on that the physical downlink control channel PDCCH is monitored the control channel elements CCEs corresponding to a PDCCH candidate m of a UE group common search space with CCE aggregation level L in subframe k S can be determined using Y m mod N L i where Yis defined as mod wherein i 0 . . . L 1 is a CCE index within a aggregation level L Y n tdd config RNTI 0 A 39827 D 65537 and k n 2 where nis the slot number within a radio frame and an aggregation level L 1 2 4 8 is defined by a set of PDCCH candidates and Nis the total number of Control Channel Elements CCEs in a control region of subframe k. In one embodiment in a PDCCH UE group common search space for a serving cell on which the PDCCH is monitored when the monitoring UE is configured with a carrier indicator field then m m M n where nis the carrier indicator field value and Mis the number of PDCCH candidates to monitor in the UE specific search space for aggregation level L. In another embodiment when the monitoring UE is not configured with a carrier indicator field then m m where m 0 . . . M 1 refer to the CCE index within a PDCCH with aggregation level L. Mis the number of PDCCH candidates to monitor in a selected search space.

In one embodiment UEs are configured to monitor PDCCH UE specific search space USS for obtaining a flexible UL DL reconfiguration information. In another embodiment monitoring the reconfiguration PDCCH carrying flexible UL DL reconfigurations can increase the total blind decoding attempts number at UE side because of extra search space monitoring unless the number of blind detections required by the UE specific search space on the serving cell are reduced to keep the overall blind detection number unchanged.

In one embodiment a UE group common search space on an EPDCCH can be associated with an assigned RNTI value such as a TDD Config RNTI. illustrates one EPDCCH physical resource block PRB set that is configured to be shared by all UEs with EPDCCH monitoring. For a common EPDCCH PRB set used for DCI format X transmission consisting of a set of enhanced control channel elements ECCEs numbered from 0 to N 1 the ECCEs corresponding to EPDCCH candidate m of the search space ESare given by

In one embodiment when the UE is configured with a carrier indicator field for the serving cell on which the EPDCCH is monitored then b n wherein nis the carrier indicator field value. In another embodiment when the UE is not configured with a carrier indicator field for the serving cell on which EPDCCH is monitored then b 0. In one embodiment the UE group common search space can be naturally distributed to obtain frequency and inference coordination diversity gain. In one embodiment the UL DL reconfiguration can be supported by a UE configured with EPDCCH monitoring.

In one embodiment DCI format X transmissions from low power RRHs with the same cell IDs within a macro cell coverage area can be time domain multiplexed by assigning the DCI format X transmissions to different subframe offsets. In one embodiment the DCI format X transmissions can be assigned a same duty cycle or different duty cycles based on data traffic conditions or backhaul characteristic for the transmissions. In another embodiment the UL DL configuration for different RRHs in CoMP Scenario can be informed by separate TCI fields within a DCI format X transmission. The separate TCI fields within one DCI format X can provide a second dimension for a TDD UL DL configuration indication in addition to a time division multiplexing TDM over different subframe based solution. illustrates that the UEs capable of UL DL reconfiguration e.g. UE UE etc. but associated with different transmission point can be configured with independent UL DL configurations depending on traffic characteristic in each individual cell of transmission points. In one embodiment a single UL DL reconfiguration PDCCH can be allowed to be transmitted after the UE indicates the UL DL reconfiguration capability to a EUTRAN.

When the UEs indicate the UL DL reconfiguration capability to a EUTRAN a set of parameters such as a TDD Config RNTI and a TDD Config Index can be communicated configured to a UL DL reconfiguration capable UE to aid the UE to monitor the DCI format X. illustrates a table with the configurations for the TDD UL DL reconfiguration indication. In one embodiment the UEs can decode a UE group common search space for a DCI format X with a CRC scrambled by an assigned RNTI value i.e. TDD Config RNTI . When the UE decodes the UE group common search space the UE can determine a UL DL configuration of one serving cell according to a corresponding TCI index value i.e. TDD Config Index within the DCI format X.

Another example provides functionality of computer circuitry of a UE operable to dynamically change an uplink downlink UL DL configuration in a communications network as shown in the flow chart in . The functionality can be implemented as a method or the functionality can be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The computer circuitry can be configured to dynamically change an uplink downlink UL DL configuration in a communications network as in block . The computer circuitry can be further configured to communicate to the eNode B a UE Capability Information information element IE to indicate an enhanced interference mitigation and traffic adaptation eIMTA capability of the UE to support an eIMTA time duplex domain TDD UL DL reconfiguration functionality as in block . The computer circuitry can be further configured to receive at the UE eIMTA configuration information within a RRCConnectionSetup message or a RRCConnectionReconfiguration message as in block .

In one embodiment the RRCConnectionSetup message or the RRCConnectionReconfiguration message can include a eIMTA Radio Network Temporary Identifier RNTI and a 2 bit or 3 bit UL DL configuration indicator field index within the UL DL reconfiguration physical downlink control channel PDCCH associated with a serving cell. In one embodiment the computer circuitry can be configured to attempt to decode the UL DL reconfiguration PDCCH with a cyclic redundancy check CRC scrambled by the assigned eIMTA RNTI and determine UL DL configuration information from a decoded UL DL reconfiguration PDCCH based on an assigned indicator index.

In one embodiment the computer circuitry can be configured to monitor one common search space CSS on a Primary Cell PCell to receive the UL DL reconfiguration PDCCH with CRC scrambled by the eIMTA RNTI assigned for the UE. In one embodiment the computer circuitry can be configured to monitor one common search space CSS on a Primary Cell PCell to receive the UL DL reconfiguration PDCCHs with CRCs scrambled by multiple different eIMTA RNTIs separately wherein each eIMTA RNTI has a one to one mapping with a serving cell index. In one embodiment the computer circuitry can be configured to monitor common search space CSS on each eIMTA enabled serving cell to receive the UL DL reconfiguration PDCCHs with CRC scrambled by one eIMTA RNTI assigned for the UE.

In one embodiment the computer circuitry can be configured to monitor a UE group common search space on a PDCCH on a Primary Cell PCell or each eIMTA enabled serving cell to receive the UL DL reconfiguration PDCCHs with CRC scrambled by different eIMTA RNTIs assigned for the UE for each serving cell wherein the control channel elements CCEs corresponding to PDCCH candidate m of the UE group common search space Scan be determined using L Y m mod N L i 

where aggregation level L 1 2 4 8 can be defined by a set of PDCCH candidates and Ycan be determined using mod

where Y n 0 A 39827 D 65537 and k n 2 nis a slot number within a radio frame and the RNTI value used for RNTI is the eIMTA RNTI assigned for UL DL reconfiguration PDCCH transmission.

In one embodiment wherein m m when the monitoring UE is not configured with a carrier indicator field.

In one embodiment wherein m m M n where nis a carrier indicator field value m 0 . . . M 1 Mis a number of PDCCH candidates to monitor in a UE specific search space for aggregation level L Nis a total number of CCEs in a control region of subframe k and i 0 . . . L 1 is a CCE index within a aggregation level L.

In one embodiment the computer circuitry can be configured to monitor the UE group common search space on an enhanced PDCCH EPDCCH on a PCell only when cross carrier scheduling is configured or on each eIMTA enabled serving cell when cross carrier scheduling is not configured to receive the UL DL reconfiguration PDCCHs with CRC scrambled by multiple different eIMTA RNTIs assigned for the UE wherein enhanced control channel elements ECCEs corresponding to EPDCCH candidate m of a search space EScan be given by 

where aggregation level L 1 2 4 8 16 32 is defined by a set of EPDCCH candidates Yis variable Y value in EPDCCH physical resource block set p of subframe k and m 0 1 . . . M 1 is an ECCE index number within aggregation level L Nis a number of ECCEs in EPDCCH PRB set p of subframe k Mis a number of EPDCCH candidates to monitor at aggregation level L in EPDCCH PRB set p for a serving cell on which the EPDCCH is monitored b nif the UE is configured with a carrier indicator field for the serving cell on which EPDCCH is monitored otherwise b 0 and nis the carrier indicator field value.

In one embodiment the UL DL reconfiguration PDCCH includes N TDD UL DL Configuration Indicator TCI fields where N can be configured by the eNode B within an RRC signaling message for each eIMTA capable UE or N can be determined using

In one embodiment the selected functionalities include Transmit Power Control TPC commands for physical uplink shared channel PUSCH transmission on flexible subframes. In another embodiment zero padding information bits can appended to TDD UL DL configuration indicator fields until a UL DL reconfiguration PDCCH size is equal to a format Y size mapped onto the common search space.

Another example provides functionality of computer circuitry of an eNode B operable to dynamically change a time duplex domain TDD uplink downlink UL DL configuration in a communications network as shown in the flow chart in . The functionality can be implemented as a method or the functionality can be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The computer circuitry can be configured to establish a radio resource control connection with a user equipment UE as in block . The computer circuitry can be further configured to receive from the UE a UE Capability Information information element IE to indicate an enhanced interference mitigation and traffic adaptation eIMTA capability of the UE as in block . The computer circuitry can be further configured to determine support of eIMTA functionality by the UE based on the UE Capability Information IE as in block . The computer circuitry can be further configured to configure radio resource control RRC parameters for performing an eIMTA UL DL reconfiguration of the UE as in block .

In one embodiment the computer circuitry can be configured to communicate to the UE eIMTA parameters associated with a secondary cell SCell of the eNode B. In another embodiment the RRC parameters can include an eIMTA radio network temporary identities RNTI of the UE and an indicator index

In one embodiment the RRCConnectionSetup message or the RRCConnectionReconfiguration message includes a eIMTA Radio Network Temporary Identifier RNTI and a 2 bit or 3 bit UL DL configuration indicator field index within a UL DL reconfiguration physical downlink control channel PDCCH associated with a serving cell. In another embodiment a UL DL reconfiguration physical downlink control channel PDCCH includes N TCI fields where N can be configured by the eNode B within an RRC signaling message for each eIMTA capable UE or N is determined using

In one embodiment the existing DCI format Y mapped onto the common search space can be a DCI format 1C. In another embodiment the existing DCI format Y mapped onto the common search space can be a DCI format 0 1A 3 3A. In another embodiment the TCI code word size of M can be 3 bits and each TCI code word can be a different UL DL configuration. In another embodiment the UL DL reconfiguration PDCCH mapped onto the common search space can be configured to enable independent UL DL configurations for each serving cell in a single carrier scenario a coordinated multiple point CoMP scenario a CoMP scenario a carrier aggregation CA scenario and a combination of a CA and CoMP scenario.

In one embodiment the method can further comprise receiving at the UE eIMTA configuration parameters and an indicator index associated with a secondary cell SCell of the UE and determining a UL DL configuration for the SCell based on a received indicator index within a received UL DL reconfiguration PDCCH. In another embodiment a UL DL configuration indicator field within a UL DL reconfiguration PDCCH can be 2 bits or 3 bits. In one embodiment the method can further comprise transmitting the DCI format on all system information block 1 SIB1 DL subframes and determining at a discontinuous reception DRX UE an UL DL configuration when the DRX UE c in a flexible subframe.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof can take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device can include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements can be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The base station and mobile station can also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that can implement or utilize the various techniques described herein can use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs can be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language can be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module can be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module can also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules can also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code can for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which can for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but can comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code can be a single instruction or many instructions and can even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data can be identified and illustrated herein within modules and can be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data can be collected as a single data set or can be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and can exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules can be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials can be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention can be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics can be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

