---

title: Non-contact stress assessment devices
abstract: Embodiments of a system are disclosed for stress assessment of a call center agent while interacting with a customer. The system is for use with a communication network. The system includes a stress assessment device and an agent device that includes an imaging unit. The agent device is configured to capture video of a target region of exposed skin of the agent using the imaging unit, collect customer interaction data based on interaction with a customer device over the communication network, and communicate the captured video and the customer interaction data to the stress assessment device. The stress assessment device is configured to passively estimate agent stress-level based on the received video, and generate feedback to the agent based on correlation between the customer interaction data and the estimated stress-level over a predefined time interval.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09270825&OS=09270825&RS=09270825
owner: XEROX CORPORATION
number: 09270825
owner_city: Norwalk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140318
---
The presently disclosed subject matter relates to call center technologies and more particularly to non contact stress assessment technologies.

The human body experiences stress due to a wide range of physiological and psychological external stimuli. Stress enables an active physiological response of the body to the external stimuli in a timely fashion. However an abnormal increase in stress may compromise long term health and disrupt the body s ability to respond to events that require a quick physical response such as quickly pulling a hand away from a hot flame.

In a call center environment agents often experience stress when communicating with customers for various reasons. For example agents may experience stress when dealing with irate customers or when the agent s role is either in conflict or ambiguous. Agent role conflict occurs when an agent has conflicting objectives to meet such as where the agent is evaluated on the number of calls answered in a day. However the agent may be simultaneously expected to resolve each caller s query concern which may result in calls lasting longer and thus decreasing the number of calls answered in a day. Agent role ambiguity occurs when the agent is either unaware of an appropriate action for a customer query or lacks sufficient information for resolving the query. For example customer complaints are usually related to inherent issues with respect to a client s product or service over which the agent has little or no control e.g. outage in access to a website due to annual maintenance . In another example the agent may not have enough information to resolve a customer concern e.g. the troubleshooting manual does not cover a particular type of problem .

Various measures are traditionally applied in a call center to improve customer care as well as each agent s efficiency and work satisfaction. A few examples of these measures include collection of data related to audio analysis of the call agent generated call summaries customer provided feedback and interactive voice response IVR call routing. The collected data is manually analyzed such as by a supervisor to identify customer issues and agent performance areas that need improvement. This data can also be used to help the agent by either reducing the agent call flow or to provide relevant assistance to the agent. The time delay due to offline analyses of the collected data impedes or prevents the supervisor from effectively monitoring multiple calls in a live environment to ensure or enhance customer satisfaction. Additionally the agent s stress level during a customer call is not taken into consideration to perform the above analyses. As a result the related art fails to provide appropriate long term remedial solutions for the agent to improve performance and work satisfaction.

It may therefore be beneficial to provide a reliable solution that provides real time feedback on an interaction between an agent and a customer based on the agent stress level during a live customer call.

One exemplary embodiment includes a system for stress assessment of a call center agent while interacting with a customer. The system is for use with a communication network. The system includes a stress assessment device and an agent device that includes an imaging unit. The agent device is configured to 1 capture video of a target region of exposed skin of the agent using the imaging unit 2 collect customer interaction data based on interaction with a customer device over the communication network and 3 communicate the captured video and the customer interaction data to the stress assessment device. The stress assessment device is configured to 1 passively estimate agent stress level in real time based on the received video and 2 generate feedback to the agent based on correlation between the customer interaction data and the estimated stress level over a predefined time interval.

Another exemplary embodiment includes a device for generating feedback to a call center agent during communication with a customer. The device includes a video analysis module a customer interaction module and a feedback module. The video analysis module receives a video of a target region of exposed skin of the agent. The video analysis module is configured to passively estimate stress level of the agent based on the received video over a predefined time interval. The customer interaction module for receiving data collected based communication between the agent and the customer. The customer interaction module is configured to correlate the data with the estimated stress level over the predefined time interval. The feedback module configured to generate feedback to the agent in real time based on the estimated stress level exceeding a predefined stress threshold. The generated feedback includes suggestive messages based on the correlated data.

Yet another exemplary embodiment includes a method for generating feedback during interaction between an agent and a customer. The method includes receiving customer interaction data and video of a target region of exposed skin of the agent. The method also includes processing the video to generate a time series signal and to extract low frequency and high frequency components from the generated time series signal. The method further includes determining stress profile of the agent based on a ratio of the low frequency components and the high frequency components of the integrated power spectrum of the time series signal over a predefined time interval such that the ratio exceeds a predefined stress threshold. The method furthermore includes correlating the customer interaction data with the determined stress profile and identifying agent stress trigger points based on the correlated customer interaction data. The method also includes generating feedback based on the determined stress profile in real time. The generated feedback includes suggestive predefined remedial messages based on the identified agent stress trigger points.

Still another exemplary embodiment includes a computer readable medium comprising computer executable instructions for generating feedback during interaction between an agent and a customer. The computer readable medium including instructions for receiving customer interaction data and video of a target region of exposed skin of the agent and processing the video to generate a time series signal and to extract low frequency and high frequency components from the time series signal. The computer readable medium also includes instructions for determining stress profile of the agent based on a ratio of the low frequency components and the high frequency components of the integrated power spectrum of the time series signal over a predefined time interval such that the ratio exceeds a predefined stress threshold. The computer readable medium further includes instructions for correlating the customer interaction data with the determined stress profile and identifying agent stress trigger points based on the correlated customer interaction data. The computer readable medium also includes instructions for generating feedback based on the determined stress profile in real time. The generated feedback includes suggestive predefined remedial messages based on the identified agent stress trigger points.

Other and further aspects and features of the disclosure will be evident from reading the following detailed description of the embodiments which are intended to illustrate not limit the present disclosure.

The following detailed description is made with reference to the figures. Exemplary embodiments are described to illustrate the disclosure not to limit its scope which is defined by the claims. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize a number of equivalent variations in the description that follows.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure definitions of one or more terms that will be used in the document are provided below.

A video is a time varying sequence of images captured of a subject of interest using a video camera capable of acquiring a video signal over at least one data acquisition imaging channels. The video may also contain other components such as audio time reference signals and the like.

A time series signal refers to a time varying signal generated from images of the captured video. Time series signals may be generated in real time from a streaming video as in the case of continuous call center agent monitoring. The time series signal may be obtained directly from the data acquisition channel of the video camera used to capture the video of the subject of interest. The time series signal may be retrieved from a remote device such as a computer workstation over a wired or wireless network or obtained on a continuous basis from a video stream.

 Cardiac pulse is a pressure wave that is generated by the subject s heart in systole as the heart pushes a volume of blood into the arterial pathway. Arterial movement as a result of this pressure wave can be sensed by tactile and electronic methods. A frequency range of the cardiac pulse is the pulse rate measured over time typically recorded in beats per minute bpm with upper and lower limits. The frequency range of the human cardiac pulse is between about 40 bpm to 240 bpm. A resting adult human typically aged 18 years has a heart rate of 60 to 100 bpm. For an adult athlete the resting heart rate will be 40 to 60 bpm. The frequency range of the cardiac pulse for animals also varies in a similar manner. For example a cat has a cardiac pulse of 120 to 140 bpm a mouse has a cardiac pulse of 450 to 750 bpm and an elephant has a cardiac pulse of 25 to 35 bpm. Each species has its own cardiac pulse frequency range and thus its own normal heart rate. Cardiac output i.e. the volume of blood the heart can pump in one minute which is expressed in L min 5.6 L min for an adult human male and 4.9 L min for an adult human female and is proportional to heart rate.

The numerous references in the disclosure to a stress assessment device are intended to cover any and or all devices capable of performing respective operations on the person in a customer interacting environment relevant to the applicable context regardless of whether or not the same are specifically provided.

The agent and the customer may communicate with each other using an agent device and a customer device respectively in different network environments. The agent device may be implemented as any of a variety of computing devices including for example a server a desktop PC a notebook a workstation a personal digital assistant PDA a mainframe computer a mobile computing device an internet appliance and so on. The agent device is configured to exchange at least one of text messages audio interaction data e.g. voice calls recorded audio messages etc. and video interaction data e.g. video calls recorded video messages etc. with the customer device or in any combination thereof. The customer device may include calling devices e.g. a telephone an internet phone etc. texting devices e.g. a pager or computing devices including those mentioned above.

In a first exemplary network environment the agent device may be configured to interact directly with the customer device via a network . The network may be a wireless or a wired network or a combination thereof. The network may be a collection of individual networks interconnected with each other and functioning as a single large network e.g. the Internet or an intranet . Examples of the network include but are not limited to local area network LAN wide area network WAN cable telephone network satellite network and so on.

The agent device may collect a variety of customer interaction data during communication with the customer device . For example the agent device may be installed with a known related art or later developed interactive voice response IVR system not shown . The IVR system interfaces with the customer device before the customer can interact with the agent through various modes such as text messages audio interactions e.g. voice calls recorded audio messages etc. and video interactions e.g. video calls recorded video messages etc. . However in a second exemplary network environment the agent device may be configured to interact with the customer device via a server . The server may connect the agent device to the customer device over the network . Optionally the IVR system may be installed on the server for interfacing with the customer device . The server may be implemented as any of a variety of computing devices including for example a general purpose computing device multiple networked servers arranged in clusters or as a server farm a mainframe or so forth.

The customer may submit voice inputs or dual tone multi frequency DTMF tone inputs to the IVR system using the customer device in response to prerecorded or dynamically generated audio messages in the IVR system. Subsequently the customer may be routed via the IVR system to the agent device for interacting with the agent . However other examples may include one or more agent devices configured to establish a direct communication with the customer devices for exchanging text messages audio interaction data and video interaction data without the IVR system. The agent device may convey the customer interaction data including the text messages the audio interaction data and the video interaction data conducted between the customer and the agent or the supervisor agent generated customer call summaries after communication with the customer customer provided feedback and customer s responses to the IVR audio messages to the server . The agent device is configured to provide agent identification data along with the customer interaction data to the server . Examples of the agent identification data include but are not limited to agent login ID agent name IP address of the agent device and so on. In some embodiments the agent device may tag the agent identification data with the customer interaction data. The server includes a stress assessment device for analyzing the customer interaction data received from the agent device or the customer device . Along with the customer interaction data the server also receives the corresponding agent identification data from the agent device .

Similar to the network environment a third exemplary network environment may implement the agent device to interact with the customer device over the network . In one embodiment the network may be established using a network appliance that may be integrated with the stress assessment device . In other embodiments the network appliance may be preconfigured or dynamically configured to include the stress assessment device integrated with other devices. For example the stress assessment device may be integrated with the agent device . The agent device may include a module not shown that enables the agent device being introduced to the network appliance thereby enabling the network appliance to invoke the stress assessment device as a service. Examples of the network appliance include but not limited to a DSL modem a wireless access point a router and a gateway for implementing the stress assessment device .

The stress assessment device may represent any of a wide variety of devices that provide services for the network . The stress assessment device may be implemented as a standalone and dedicated black box including hardware and installed software where the hardware is closely matched to the requirements and or functionality of the software. The stress assessment device may enhance or increase the functionality and or capacity of the network to which it is connected. The stress assessment device may be configured for example to perform e mail tasks security tasks network management tasks including IP address management and other tasks. In some embodiments the stress assessment device is configured not to expose its operating system or operating code to an end user and does not include related art I O devices such as a keyboard or display. The stress assessment device of some embodiments may however include software firmware or other resources that support remote administration and or maintenance of the stress assessment device . Alternatively as shown in a fourth exemplary network environment the stress assessment device may be integrated with or installed on the agent device that directly communicates with the customer device over the network . The stress assessment device discussed below in greater detail may be configured to estimate stress levels of multiple agents such as the agent upon receiving their videos and generate feedback on real time or at predetermined intervals to corresponding agents about the estimated stress levels.

Further the agent device may include an imaging unit such as a camera operating in communication with the agent device . In a first example the imaging unit includes a color video camera such as an HD webcam with at least one imaging channel for capturing color values for pixels corresponding generally to the primary visible colors typically RGB . In a second example the imaging unit is an infrared camera with at least one imaging channel for measuring pixel intensity values in the near infrared NIR wavelength range. In a third example the imaging unit is a hybrid device capable of capturing both color and NIR video. In a fourth example the imaging unit is a multi hyper spectral camera device capable of capturing images at multiple wavelength bands.

The imaging unit may be configured for capturing video of the agent being monitored. The imaging unit may be rotatable about a fixed support such as the agent device so that a field of view of the imaging unit is directed to a region of interest on the agent s body with exposed skin area. The region of interest is an unobstructed area of a region of agent s skin where a photoplethysmograph PPG signal discussed later in greater detail of the agent can be registered. Such regions may be identified in image frames of the captured video using for example object identification pixel classification material analysis texture identification pattern recognition methods etc. The region of interest on the agent s body may be exposed to the ambient surroundings. The region of interest that is chosen for analysis is relatively small for example the forehead middle of the chest etc. rather than the entire visible region of the agent s body to reduce or avoid variability in analyses that may be caused by anatomical and physiological functions or movements of various body parts. The imaging unit may simultaneously monitor multiple agents based on the field of view and resolution of the unit .

The imaging unit provides the captured video of the region of interest ROI to the agent device . The agent device combines the captured video with the agent identification data and sends both the captured video and the agent identification data to the stress assessment device . The stress assessment device receives the agent s ROI video and processes it to generate a time series signal containing a photoplethysmograph PPG signal for analyses. The stress assessment device is configured to provide real time feedback to the agent device or a supervisor device associated with the supervisor based on the agent stress exceeding a predefined threshold during a live customer interaction. The stress assessment device analyzes the generated time series signal to estimate the stress levels of the agent passively through any known related art or later developed non contact mechanisms while a customer agent interaction is in progress. For example heart rate variability HRV is a common measure that may be used for evaluating agent stress by determining state of the autonomic nervous system ANS of the agent . The ANS is represented by the sympathetic nervous system SNS and the parasympathetic nervous system PNS of the agent . HRV is the beat to beat time variation in heartbeat and is modulated by changes in the balance between influences of the SNS and the PNS. Such changes occur based on the response of the agent s body to stress by releasing hormones such as epinephrine and cortisol which in turn lead to increase in heartbeat tightening of muscles and increase in blood pressure. HRV is also useful for diagnosis of various diseases and health conditions such as diabetic neuropathy cardio vascular disease myocardial infraction fatigue sleep problems psychiatric disorders psychological disorders etc.

In an embodiment the stress assessment device extracts and analyses a ratio of low frequency LF and high frequency HF components of the integrated power spectrum of the generated time series signal. When the LF HF ratio is greater than a stress threshold value for example a value 1 the agent s SNS is more dominant and hence indicates that the agent is under stress. Accordingly the stress assessment device generates feedback to the agent device or the supervisor device as identified by the agent identification data so that the agent or the supervisor may take appropriate action to reduce the agent stress. Additionally an increasing level of agent stress based on the increasing LF HF ratio may be assessed with respect to multiple predefined stress thresholds to create a stress profile for each agent in real time. Whenever the LF HF ratio exceeds each of the predefined stress thresholds feedback may be generated by the stress assessment device discussed later in greater detail. Such stress profiles of different agents may be used such as by the supervisor for various purposes. For example the agent stress profiles may assist the supervisor to identify a set of agents that may be appropriate for 1 a particular customer concern or issue 2 further training on particular customer concerns or issues 3 customer concerns or issues that need better training material for the agents and so on. Such analyses of the time series signal enables the integration of multiple sources of data such as the agent s body motion the customer s audio responses to the agent or the IVR system color or textual changes in the exposed skin area of the agent etc. to enhance diagnosis of HRV and interactions with other effects of ANS.

Further the stress assessment device is configured to analyze the customer interaction data based on various parameters. Examples of these parameters include but are not limited to key words e.g. hello late hurry etc. generic terms of interest e.g. 16 character alphanumeric customer ID 10 digit phone number etc. sentiment intensive words e.g. hate irritate etc. user selections on the IVR system to identify a broad topic of a customer agent conversation customer agent voice over that may be indicative of impatience and irritation for the customer and other finer aspects of the customer agent interaction.

The stress assessment device then correlates the analyzed customer interaction data for each parameter with the determined stress profile for each agent based on the agent identification data to identify stress trigger points. The stress assessment device is configured to generate predefined suggestive remedial messages based on the identified stress trigger points. The stress assessment device may be configured to communicate either automatically or upon request the predefined remedial messages along with the feedback or otherwise to the corresponding agent device and or the supervisor device . The predefined suggestive remedial messages assist the agent and the supervisor on the fly to undertake appropriate actions to reduce agent stress during live communication with the customer .

The stress assessment device in one embodiment is a hardware device with at least one processor executing machine readable program instructions for analyzing received videos such that the agent s stress level can be determined to generate feedback. Such a system may include in whole or in part a software application working alone or in conjunction with one or more hardware resources. Such software applications may be executed by the processors on different hardware platforms or emulated in a virtual environment. Aspects of the stress assessment device may leverage off the shelf software available in the art related art or developed later.

The processor s may include for example microprocessors microcomputers microcontrollers digital signal processors central processing units state machines logic circuits and or any devices that manipulate signals based on operational instructions. Among other capabilities the processor s are configured to fetch and execute computer readable instructions in the memory.

The interface s may include a variety of software interfaces for example application programming interface hardware interfaces for example cable connectors or both. The interface s facilitate 1 receiving the video of the region of interest on the agent s body the customer interaction data and agent identification data and 2 reliably transmitting feedback to the agent device and or the supervisor device .

The agent identification module stores different types of data to identify each of the agents such as the agent interacting with the customer . Examples of the data include but are not limited to employment data e.g. agent name agent employee ID designation tenure experience previous organization supervisor name supervisor employee ID etc. demographic data e.g. gender race age education accent income nationality ethnicity area code zip code marital status job status etc. psychographic data e.g. introversion sociability aspirations hobbies etc. system access data e.g. login ID password biometric data etc. and other business relevant data about each of the call center agents. Some embodiments may include the agent identification module to store similar data for a supervisor such as the supervisor .

The video analysis module receives the agent s ROI video and the corresponding agent identification data from the imaging unit via the agent device . In one embodiment the received agent s ROI video is processed by the video analysis module to isolate a bodily vascular network using various techniques known in the art related art or developed later. The bodily vascular network may be identified in the ROI video based on for example color spatial features material identification and the like to obtain a time series signal. The obtained time series signal is normalized and filtered to remove undesirable frequencies. The resulting time series signal for different bodily vascular regions includes the sum total of volumetric pressure changes within those regions. Arterial pulsations include a dominant component of these signals. The time series signal includes a PPG signal that correlates to the agent s cardiac pulse pressure wave. The PPG signal may be de trended to remove slow non stationary frequency components from the time series signal such that a nearly stationary PPG signal and hence a nearly stationary time series signal can be obtained.

The video analysis module extracts the low frequency and high frequency components from the time series signal over a predefined time interval. The video analysis module also computes a ratio of the low and high frequency LF HF ratio of the integrated power spectrum of the corresponding time series signal. The LF HF ratio provides a measure of the agent s estimated HRV for that predefined time interval. The estimated HRV is then used to assess the level of agent stress.

The LF and HF components are related in different degrees to different components of the cardio vascular control system as shown in a table . The table also shows different frequency components for normal healthy humans. The HF component which has a peak at respiratory frequency corresponds to respiratory sinus arrhythmia RSA and reflects parasympathetic influence on the heart through efferent vagal activity. The LF component including fluctuations below 0.15 Hz and usually centered at about 0.1 Hz is mediated by both cardiac vagal and sympathetic nerves. Hence the LF HF ratio represents the sympatho vagal interaction. The LF and HF components may be also expressed in normalized units as shown in Equations 1 and 2 to account for inter individual differences amongst various LF components and the HF components within their respective frequency ranges. Such normalization of the LF and HF components also normalizes the differences in various imaging units.

In the Equations 1 and 2 the Total Power refers to total power of the integrated spectrum containing the LF and HF components over the predefined time interval within the time series signal and VLF refers to a very low frequency ranging from 0.003 Hz to 0.04 Hz over the predefined time interval within the time series signal.

The LF HF ratio exceeding a value 1 indicates abnormal stress level of the agent . The video analysis module may include multiple stress threshold values that are compared to the computed value of LF HF ratio for determining the level of agent stress. For example a value of the LF HF ratio between stress threshold values 1 to 2 may indicate low level stress. Similarly a value of the LF HF ratio between the stress threshold values 2 and 3 may indicate mid level stress and that between the stress threshold values 3 and 4 may indicate high level stress experienced by the agent . The LF HF ratio having a value less than the stress threshold value 1 corresponds to the influence of PNS indicating insignificant or normal level agent stress.

Such non contact estimation of HRV based on analyses of agent s ROI video to determine agent stress does not involve active involvement of the agent thereby minimizing the chances of agent pretense. This passive determination of the agent stress may be performed at night or day with or without the visible ambient illuminators since the imaging unit can measure HR signals under IR illumination which is not visible at night. Also some visible illuminators for example incandescent lamps have enough IR signals and hence the imaging unit in communication with the stress assessment device can be used without any additional illuminators even if the analysis is required for the agent ROI video taken in dark or low light environments.

The customer interaction module receives the customer interaction data and the agent identification data from the agent device . The customer interaction module is configured to analyze the customer interaction data including at least one of customer related actions including 1 the customer s responses to the IVR system 2 the text messages the audio interactions and the video interactions exchanged between the customer and the agent or the supervisor 3 customer provided feedback and 4 a customer call summary created by the agent based on the agent s interaction with the customer or in any combination thereof. In one example the customer interaction module may apply Automatic Speech Recognition ASR on the agent customer conversation followed by text analysis of the ASR transcript to parse the conversation into different categories. The categorization may be performed on the basis of different parameters such as modeling the customer call flow for example which part of the call was greeting query closing and so on spotting key words or generic terms of interest for example 16 character alphanumeric customer ID 10 digit phone number sentiment intensive words for example hate irritate etc. customer agent voice over indicative of impatience and irritation on customer s side and other finer aspects. In another example the customer interaction module may parse the customer s IVR responses to identify various aspects such as a broad topic of a customer call the caller s state of mind i.e. is the customer agitated in a hurry or calm customer interaction history i.e. number of times the customer has called in the recent past how much time the customer has spent in traversing the IVR and in many cases a fine grain sub topic identification. The customer interaction module identifies these parameters and aspects as the stress trigger points responsible for causing agent tress.

Further the customer interaction module is configured to combine the customer interaction data with the agent stress profile determined by the video analysis module based on the agent identification data. For example customer interaction module may correlate various customer related actions with the time of high agent stress based on the agent login ID to derive insights into the stress trigger points for the agent such as a the agent is more stressed during a query period such that a likely implication is that the access to database is slow or the script to identify a customer issue is not easy to follow or during a resolution period such that a likely implication is that a manual provided for troubleshooting is not detailed enough or is faulty and needs revision b the agent is stressed by customer s language and tone such that a likely implication is that the agent needs training on how to empathize with the customer or that the call should be escalated or c the agent is highly stressed throughout the call such that a likely implication is that the agent has difficulty following a particular accent of the customer or is not well versed in a particular customer related topic . Such insights are also identified as the stress trigger points for the agent by the customer interaction module . The customer interaction module communicates the stress trigger points to the feedback module .

The feedback module receives the stress trigger points and is configured to provide feedback to at least one of the agent and the supervisor based on outputs of the video analysis module and the customer interaction module . In one example the feedback module may generate feedback whenever the video analysis module determines that the LF HF ratio has exceeded one or more predefined stress threshold values indicating a stress pattern of the agent . In another example predefined suggestive remedial messages may be stored in the feedback module . The predefined suggestive remedial messages may be created based on the identified stress trigger points. The feedback module may be configured to generate feedback including the predefined suggestive remedial messages to assist in reducing agent stress.

Additionally the identified stress trigger points may be retrieved from the feedback module upon request. The retrieved stress trigger points may be used by the supervisor or the agent offline for various purposes such as to identify a set of agents that may be best suited for a particular customer related topic the agents who need further training on particular customer related topics those customer related topics that need better training material and so on.

The order in which the method is described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described method blocks can be combined or otherwise performed in any order to implement the method or an alternate method. Additionally individual blocks may be deleted from the method without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure described herein. Furthermore the method can be implemented in any suitable hardware software firmware or combination thereof that exists in the related art or that is later developed.

The method describes without limitation implementation of the exemplary stress assessment device in a call center environment. One of skill in the art will understand that the method may be modified appropriately for implementation in a variety of other business scenarios including those related to medical services hospitality retail banking services and so on without departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosure.

At step customer interaction data video of a target region of exposed skin of an agent and agent identification data is received. In case of a call center the customer may communicate with the call center agent over the communication network . Such communication may be established between the customer device and the agent device either directly or via an intermediate device such as the server the network appliance and so on. The customer may manipulate the customer device to communicate with the call center agent via the agent device through various modes. In a first mode the customer may communicate with the IVR system interfacing between the customer device and the agent device . The customer may respond to various pre recorded or dynamically generated messages in the IVR system. Based on customer responses the IVR system may route the customer to the agent for direct interaction. In a second mode the agent device may be configured to establish a direct connection with customer device without intervention from the IVR system.

Once the agent device is connected to the customer device the customer may interact with the agent through at least one of text messages audio interaction data video interaction data or customer provided feedback that is recorded by the agent device . The agent may use the agent device to additionally prepare a summary of the audio interactions or the video interactions conducted with the customer .

In a call center environment such customer agent interactions may be substantially predefined or scripted. For example the agent may have access to one or more scripts for example including dialogs and questions to ask the customer during a customer call. The script may be available to the agent in a physical version such as on a physical paper or in an electronic version stored on the agent device . The electronic version of the script may be hyperlinked for directing the agent to other scripts based on a customer s response to a previously asked question. For this the agent may enter the customer s response into the script or an associated scripting program such as by pressing a predetermined button on the agent device or by selecting a proper response from a list using a mouse or other pointing device input code on the agent device . Depending upon the entered response the script or the scripting program may display another script on the agent device .

The agent device may collect the customer interaction data including the customer s IVR responses the text messages the audio interaction data the video interaction data the customer provided feedback and the call summaries and convey them along with the agent identification data to the stress assessment device . The stress assessment device may be implemented as a standalone device or integrated with at least one the agent device the server and the network appliance .

Additionally the agent device includes the imaging unit that is configured to monitor and capture a video of a target region of exposed skin of the agent . The imaging unit may include IR or NIR illuminators so that the video may be correctly captured even in dark or low light conditions. In an exemplary embodiment the agent may be continuously monitored by the imaging unit that is configured to capture the video while the agent is interacting with the customer . For example the imaging unit may capture the video of the target region of exposed skin of the agent during a voice call with the customer . The captured video is in sync with digitized audio data corresponding to such customer agent interaction thereby providing combined audio video data for analysis. The agent device communicates the captured video along with the agent identification data to the stress assessment device .

The stress assessment device includes the agent identification module the video analysis module the customer interaction module and the feedback module . The video analysis module is configured to receive the captured video and the agent identification data. The customer interaction module is configured to receive the customer interaction data and the agent identification data.

At step the received video is processed to generate a time series signal and to extract the LF and the HF components from the generated time series signal. The video analysis module is configured to process the received video of the target region of the exposed skin of the agent to isolate blood vessels in the agent s body depicted in the video based on different parameters using various techniques known in the art. Examples of these parameters include but not limited to color spatial features material identification and the like. The isolated blood vessels are represented in the time series signal for different bodily vascular regions captured in the video. If the agent has high bodily motion for example during a conversation with the customer then motion isolation or motion compensation algorithms known in the art may be used to filter the time series signal. The time series signal includes the PPG signal having the LF and HF components. The video analysis module is configured to apply appropriate hardware or software filters and extract the LF and the HF components from the integrated power spectrum of the time series signal over a predefined interval and computes the LF HF ratio which is a measure of the heart rate variability and hence the stress experienced by the agent .

At step a stress profile of the agent is determined based on the LF HF ratio exceeding the predefined stress threshold. The video analysis module is further configured to compare the value of LF HF ratio to at least one predefined stress threshold value. The LF HF ratio having a value greater than the predefined stress threshold value 1 indicates that the agent is under stress. In contrast the LF HF ratio value less than the predefined stress threshold value 1 indicates that the agent is experiencing no stress or normal stress that is required to keep the agent active. Further the video analysis module may be configured to compare the LF HF ratio with multiple predefined stress threshold values each of which is equivalent to or exceeds the value 1 . Exemplary embodiments may include the video analysis module to compare the LF HF ratio with the stress threshold values 2 3 and 4 to assess the level of stress experienced by the agent . For example the LF HF ratio having a value between 1 and 2 may indicate low level stress the LF HF ratio value between 2 and 3 may indicate medium level stress and the LF HF ratio value between 3 and 4 may indicate high level stress experienced by the agent .

The video analysis module is also configured to identify the agent based on the agent identification data received from the agent device . The video analysis module compares the agent identification data such as the login ID the IP address of the agent device etc. with the agent information in the agent identification module to identify the agent . The video analysis module associates the identified agent with the determined LF HF ratio value to create a stress profile for that agent in real time. The agent stress profile is stored at the video analysis module which communicates the agent stress profile to the customer interaction module and the feedback module .

At step the customer interaction data is correlated with the stress profile of the agent based on the agent identification data. The customer interaction module is configured to receive the customer interaction data and the agent identification data from the agent device . Similar to the video analysis module the customer interaction module is configured to identify the agent associated with the customer interaction data by comparing the received agent identification data with the agent information stored in the agent identification module . The customer interaction module correlates the received customer interaction data with the received agent stress profile based on the agent identification data. Examples of the agent identification data may include but are not limited to agent name employee ID of the agent IP address of the agent device and so on.

At step agent stress trigger points are identified in the correlated customer interaction data. The customer interaction module is configured to analyze the correlated customer interaction data to determine the agent stress trigger points that cause the LF HF ratio for the identified agent to at least become equivalent to or exceed the value 1 thereby indicating the agent being abnormally stressed out. Unlike conventional techniques such analysis augments the agent stress profile corresponding to the agent s ROI video with the correlated customer interaction data for determining the agent stress trigger points. The analysis may be performed in a variety of ways. In one example the customer interaction module may apply Automatic Speech Recognition ASR on the agent customer conversation followed by text analysis of the ASR transcript to parse the conversation into different categories that may have caused the agent s stress to increase. The categorization may be performed on the basis of different parameters such as those discussed above that may have made the agent to experience stress. In some embodiments the determination of the stress trigger points is assisted by scripted details for example dialogs questions etc. in the customer interaction data. The customer interaction module provides the identified stress trigger points to the feedback module .

At step feedback is generated based on the agent stress profile of the agent in real time. In one embodiment the feedback module is configured to receive the agent stress profile from the video analysis module . When the agent stress profile indicates that the LF HF ratio exceeds a predefined stress threshold value such as 1 2 and so on the feedback module is configured to provide feedback to the corresponding agent or to the supervisor in real time. Other embodiments may include the feedback module configured to provide the feedback to the agent or the supervisor multiple times if the LF HF ratio is equivalent to or above one or more predefined stress threshold values for a predetermined time. Additionally or alternatively the feedback module may be configured to provide the feedback to the agent or the supervisor when the LF HF ratio reduces below one or more predefined stress threshold values.

The feedback may be provided in various forms including but not limited to an alert message an audio indication such as a beep and a visual indication such as a blinking light or any combination thereof. The feedback indicates that the agent is experiencing stress while interacting with the customer . For example when the agent is communicating with an irate customer the agent may experience abnormal stress. Upon detecting agent stress due to an increase in the LF HF ratio beyond 1 as indicated in the agent stress profile the feedback module provides the feedback to the agent and the supervisor in real time during a live customer interaction. In exemplary embodiments including those involving non visual interactions such as voice calls between the agent and the customer in a live environment the provided feedback assists the agent to change the course of interaction whenever abnormal stress level of the agent stress is determined. In some embodiments the feedback module may provide the feedback to the supervisor on the supervisor device during an on going customer agent interaction. As a result the supervisor is able to effectively monitor multiple customer agent interactions and provide relevant assistance to the agent for ensuring or enhancing customer satisfaction.

At step the feedback is combined with suggestive stress remedial messages based on the identified stress trigger points. The feedback module receives the stress trigger points from the customer interaction module . In one embodiment the feedback module is configured to provide predefined stress remedial messages with the feedback to the agent based on the received stress trigger points. The predefined stress remedial messages may assist the agent during the live customer interaction to reduce agent stress. For example the agent may be experiencing stress due to lack of adequate information to address customer needs. In response to an increasing agent stress the feedback module may provide the agent with a link to a technical guide along with stress indicating feedback to assist the agent on the fly to successfully address the customer needs and reduce agent stress. In another example if the agent stress level remains above the predefined stress threshold for a predefined duration during the customer call the supervisor may be alerted by sending feedback or the agent may be prompted to escalate the call. Unlike the conventional offline analyses of the customer interaction data the feedback module analyzes the stress trigger points to provide real time appropriate feedback message during a live customer agent interaction for mitigating agent stress and enhance customer satisfaction.

Other embodiments may include the feedback module configured to provide stress related data for each agent on demand for non continuous monitoring of customer agent interactions. In one example the supervisor may request for the agent stress trigger points for a particular agent across various customer calls to perform an aggregate level stress analysis for the agent . In another example the supervisor may request for stress trigger points across a set of agents to identify high stress times and high stress agents for managing deputation of one or more supervisors. Such analysis of the stress related data may assist the supervisor to monitor long term performance of one or more agents to improve call routing and to improve various resources such as training learning material number of breaks allocated projects of a particular type etc. available to the agents.

The above description does not provide specific details of manufacture or design of the various components. Those of skill in the art are familiar with such details and unless departures from those techniques are set out techniques known related art or later developed designs and materials should be employed. Those in the art are capable of choosing suitable manufacturing and design details.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the disclosure. It will be appreciated that several of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be combined into other systems or applications. Various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may subsequently be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the present disclosure as encompassed by the following claims.

