---

title: Providing parental control using a playlist
abstract: A method includes receiving a playlist at a network device from a client device in communication with the network device over a network. In response to receiving the playlist, the method also includes disabling channel changes not associated with the playlist from executing during times indicated in the playlist. The method further includes transmitting a control message from the network device to the client device that requests the client device to tune to a channel conforming to the playlist when the network device receives a channel change request not associated with the playlist from the client device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09232266&OS=09232266&RS=09232266
owner: Google Technology Holdings LLC
number: 09232266
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141222
---
This U.S. patent application is a continuation of and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 976 035 filed on Dec. 22 2010 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Present day set top boxes commonly offer parental control capabilities that limit the content viewable by children in the household. Typically these products implement a block by rating limit. Content that has a rating higher more adult than the set limit will not be viewable on the display. While this is an effective method it can lead to a frustrating experience given the size of today s channel lineup. For example if a parent sets a MPAA G rating limit the vast majority of channels would be blocked. In this environment the child may encounter blocked channels for every one allowed. Furthermore the allowed channels might not be what the parent would recommend if they were sitting next to the child in the room.

One aspect of the disclosure provides a method for providing parental control using a playlist. The method includes receiving at a network device a playlist from a client device in communication with the network device over a cable network. In response to receiving the playlist the method includes disabling by the network device channel changes not associated with the playlist from executing during times indicated in the playlist. When the network device receives a channel change request not associated with the playlist from the client device the method includes transmitting a control message from the network device to the client device that requests the client device to tune to a channel conforming to the playlist.

Implementations of the disclosure may include one or more of the following optional features. In some implementations the method includes prior to transmitting the control message from the network device to the client device generating by the computing device the control message using a Switched Digital Video channel change message protocol. The method may further include prior to transmitting the control message from the network device to the client device generating by the computing device the control message using a subset of channel change protocols deployed in a mini client to transmit the control message in a non Switched Digital Video system. The playlist may include selected channel information associated with time intervals. The playlist may be based at least in part on a viewing log indicating all programming viewed through the client device over a period of time selected by the client device. The playlist may be created using an internet based interface executing on the client device.

Additionally or alternatively the internet based interface may include an electronic program guide executing on the client device. The client device may include a set top terminal associated with a subscriber of the cable network. The client device may include one of a personal computer a personal digital assistant a networked appliance or a mobile device. In some examples the method further includes storing the received playlist at the parental control server in communication with the network device.

Another aspect of the disclosure provides a computer program for providing parental control using a playlist. This aspect may include one or more of the following optional features. The computer program product is encoded on a computer readable storage medium including instructions that when executed by a network processing device cause the processing device to perform operations. The operations include receiving a playlist from a client device in communication with the network processing device over a cable network. In response to receiving the playlist the computer program includes disabling channel changes not associated with the playlist from executing during times indicated in the playlist. When the network processing device receives a channel change request not associated with the playlist from the client device the computer program includes transmitting a control message to the client device that requests the client device to tune to a channel conforming to the playlist.

In some implementations the performed operations further include prior to transmitting the control message to the client device generating the control message using a Switched Digital Video channel change message protocol. The performed operations may further include prior to transmitting the control message to the client device generating the control message using a subset of channel change protocols deployed in a mini client to transmit the control message in a non Switched Digital Video system. The playlist may include selected channel information associated with time intervals. The playlist may be based at least in part on a viewing log indicating all programming viewed through the client device over a period of time selected by the client device. The playlist may be created using an internet based interface executing on the client device.

Additionally or alternatively the internet based interface includes an electronic program guide executing on the client device. The client device may include a set top terminal associated with a subscriber of the cable network. The client device may include one of a personal computer a personal digital assistant a networked appliance or a mobile device. The performed operations may further include storing the received playlist at the parental control server in communication with the network processing device.

Yet another aspect of the disclosure provides a content delivery system for providing parental control using a playlist. The system includes one or more headend processing devices executing a Switched Digital Video manager. The Switched Digital Video manager includes receiving a playlist from a client device in communication with the Switched Digital Video manager over a cable network. In response to receiving the playlist the system includes disabling channel changes not associated with the playlist from executing during times indicated in the playlist. When the network processing device receives a channel change request not associated with the playlist from the client device the system includes transmitting a control message to the client device that requests the client device to tune to a channel conforming to the playlist.

The details of one or more implementations of the disclosure are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other aspects features and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

As detailed below parental controls can be implemented in a relatively simple manner in Switched Digital Video SDV systems. SDV refers to an arrangement in which broadcast channels are only switched onto the network when they are requested by one or more subscribers thereby allowing system operators to save bandwidth over their distribution network. In conventional cable or satellite broadcast systems every broadcast channel is always available to all authorized subscribers. In contrast a switched digital video channel is only available when requested by one or more authorized subscribers. Also unlike video on demand which switches a singlecast interactive program to a user switched digital video switches broadcast streams making each stream available to one or more subscribers who simply join the broadcast stream just as they would with normal broadcast services. That is once a switched service is streamed to a subscriber subsequent subscribers associated with the same service group as the first subscriber can tune to the same broadcast stream. The switched digital video will often share the same resource managers and underlying resources with other on demand services.

SDV systems can simplify implementation of parental controls because each time a user changes from one channel to another a channel change request is sent from the user s subscriber device e.g. a set top terminal to a session manager in the network s headend. Channel change requests are one type of message that is communicated between the session manager and the subscriber using an SDV Channel Change Message CCM protocol which can be implemented as a proprietary protocol or as an open standard. After a channel change request is passed from the subscriber to the session manager the session manager would normally respond by sending a message that requests the subscriber device to tune to a channel on which the SDV channel will be made available. The message also includes the necessary tuning information for tuning to that SDV channel.

In some examples the session manager sends a message that requests the subscriber device to tune to a channel or program in accordance with a playlist. For instance tuning information for a channel or program will be sent from the session manager to the subscriber device conforming to a pre established playlist that the user has made available to the session manager via a parental control server.

Referring to in some implementations an example content delivery system architecture delivers both broadcast channels and switched digital channels to a subscriber during a switched digital video SDV session. The SDV session is implemented through a service offering in which application level data generated by a set top terminal initiates a SDV session request and an SDV manager routes data in accordance with the request to provision the service. Among other components system architecture includes a content distribution source such as a headend that is connected to multiple intermediate entities such as hubs . The headend communicates with a switch or router in hubs over links L1 L2 L3 respectively. The headend and hubs may communicate over a packet switched network such as a cable data network passive optical network PON or the like using for example IP multicast addressing.

Some or even all of the hubs are connected to multiple users typically via distribution networks such as local cable access networks e.g. HFC networks . In the example shown each hub connects to a distinct HFC network which in turn communicates with end user equipment. In particular hubs in communicate with access networks respectively. Each access network in turn communicates with multiple end user devices such as set top or subscriber terminals. In the example of access network communicates with set top terminals access network communicates with set top terminals and access network communicates with set top terminals .

In addition to the switch or router each hub can include an array of radio frequency transmitter edge devices such as edge QAM modulators . The number of edge devices in each hub may vary as needs dictate. For instance the number of edge devices needed to implement SDV channels is generally much greater than the number of edge devices needed to implement broadcast channels. As used herein the term QAM refers to modulation schemes used for sending signals over cable access networks. Such modulation schemes might use any constellation level e.g. QAM 16 QAM 64 QAM 256 etc. depending on the details of a cable access network. A QAM may also refer to a physical channel modulated according to such schemes. Typically a single QAM modulator can output a multiplex of ten or twelve programs although the actual number will be dictated by a number of factors including the communication standard that is employed. The edge QAM modulators usually are adapted to i receive Ethernet frames that encapsulate the transport packets ii de capsulate these frames and remove network jitter and iii transmit radio frequency signals representative of the transport stream packets to end users over the HFC network. Each transport stream is mapped to a downstream QAM channel. Each QAM channel has a carrier frequency that differs from the carrier frequency of the other channels. The transport streams are mapped according to a channel plan designed by the MSO that operates the network.

Each hub also includes an edge resource manager for allocating and managing the resources of the edge devices . The edge resource manager communicates with and receives instructions from the session manager located in the headend . In some examples the edge resource manager and or session manager are located in the headend .

Referring to in some implementations an example headend includes a broadcast content source which may include by way of example satellite receivers off air receivers and or content storage devices such as servers. A SDV manager is used to determine which SDV transport streams are being transmitted at any time and for directing the set top terminals STB to the appropriate stream. The SDV manager also keeps track of which subscribers are watching which channels and it communicates with the edge resource managers in the hubs so that the content can be switched on and off under the control of the SDV manager . In addition all subscriber requests for a switched digital channel go through the SDV manager . The switched digital channels are forwarded to a rate clamp and one or more encryptors using for example IP multicast addressing. The content is then encrypted by the encryptors and transmitted to the appropriate hub or hubs . Typically standard definition SD channels are currently rate clamped to 3.75 Mbps while high definition channels are currently rate clamped to between about 12 Mbps and 15 Mbps. The encryptors encrypt the digitally encoded content often under the control of a conditional access system not shown .

In some examples the headend includes a network DVR . The network DVR stores content that can be transmitted to a STB via a hub and access network in response to a user request to play a program stored on the DVR . Other user input requests are also serviced by network DVR including for example requests to accelerate the playing of a program in the forward direction e.g. cueing and in the reverse direction e.g. reviewing . The content is stored by the network DVR upon a user request. The content may be provided to the network DVR from any available content source including for example content source .

The functionality of some or all of the SDV manager may be transferred to each of the hubs . For example as described below Channel Change Messages may be communicated between the STBs and the hubs . In addition some or all of the functionality of the SDV manager may be distributed among other components such as an SDV operations manager SDVOM which is sometimes used to configure and monitor SDV systems.

Headend may also include a variety of other components for offering additional services. For example as shown a video on demand VOD server stores programs or other content for distribution to subscribers on an on demand basis. Although not shown other components and arrangements for achieving the various functionalities of headend are possible. For example the headend may include typical head end components and services including a billing module an advertising insertion module a subscriber management system SMS a conditional access system and a LAN s for placing the various components in data communication with one another. Headend also includes a parental control server which will be discussed below. In the example shown in the configuration of the headend is a high level conceptual architecture and that each network may have multiple headends deployed using different architectures.

The edge devices provide programming to the STBs using the downstream in band channels. To communicate control information and the like with the headend and or the relevant hub the STBs may use out of band OOB or DOCSIS channels or an IP tunnel or an IP connection and associated protocols. However in some cases communication of control information and the like can be performed using in band channels as well.

Control information that may be communicated over the out of band channels includes the aforementioned SDV channel change messages CCM which are used to pass channel change requests from the headend to the SDV manager which may also reside in the headend . In particular the SDV manager receives channel change requests for switched digital content from headend to bind that content to a session on one of edge devices serving a STB s service group. The channel change request message is generated by the SDV application or its designated proxy resident in the headend in response to a program channel request that is prompted by a playlist created by a subscriber and stored at parental control server . In response to the channel change request message the SDV manager sends the frequency and program number where that content may be found to the set STB . SDV manager e.g. session manager or Switched Video Manager SVM requests the STB to tune to the channel corresponding to this frequency and program number using a so called force tune function. The SDV manager also receives channel change request messages for non SDV e.g. broadcast channels in order to gather statistics that can be used to better understand subscriber activity and to provide information that can be used for targeted advertising and the like. Another reason to receive non SDV channel changes is so that the SDV Manager knows when the STBs are no longer tuned to an SDV channel thus allowing the SDV Manager to remove the SDV channel from the network to save bandwidth.

Since the SDV manager receives channel change requests for SDV and non SDV channels the SDV manager can be configured so that the necessary tuning information for a channel or program will be sent from SDV manager to the subscriber device e.g. STB conforming to a pre established playlist that the user has made available to the SDV manager via a parental control server .

The pre established playlist may be communicated to the SDV manager in any appropriate manner. For instance in one example the user may supply the playlist via an Internet enabled client device that accesses a user account database in a server associated with or in communication with the SDV manager such as parental control unit or server depicted in . The client device may be the user s own STB or another device such as a personal computer PDA networked appliance cellphone or the like. The user account database may be accessed through an application level interface residing on the client device such as a web browser.

In some implementations an input dialog box will first appear requiring a password to be input prior to accessing the parental playlist interface . In some examples a password is not be required until an attempt is made to alter the control settings. In the example shown a viewing log option allows the subscriber to see a list of all the programming that has been viewed through the various STBs in the household over some selected period of time e.g. the past week . Information in the log option can be used for example to revise and refine the parental controls that are put in place by the subscriber.

Referring to in some examples the parental control interface screen is presented to the user if the user has more than one STB in his or her residence. This screen provides the user with a pulldown menu that presents the user with the option to establish a common set of controls for all the STBs or to establish different sets of controls on a room by room basis. From this menu a user e.g. a subscriber has the ability to establish a playlist for each set top terminal in the residence.

In some implementations the top of an OCAP software stack includes a Monitor Application Electronic Program Guide EPG SDV application and any other applications that may be deployed in a particular network. These applications are run on top of a software layer called the Execution Engine and interface to the Execution Engine using the well known OCAP APIs . The client device may also include certain software applications or Native Applications that do not run within the Execution Engine but directly run on top of the Operating System Middleware for the client device. Native Applications are typically written for e.g. a particular hardware configuration of the STB . Example Native Applications may include management of front panel functionality remote control interaction games and the like. The objects downloaded to the client device in accordance with the techniques described herein may include any of the aforementioned applications and programs as well as additional applications programs or other objects. However during an upgrade many of the objects that need to be downloaded may be directed to applications located above the OCAP application programming interface .

In some examples the SDV application is loaded onto the STBs . Once installed the set top terminals can be readily configured to generate and transmit to the SDV manager the channel change requests even if all the channels in the system are in a broadcast configuration.

In some examples the SDV application is responsible for communicating the channel change information e.g. SDV CCMs between the STB and the SDV manager . The SDV application also receives from the SDV manager the control messages that request the set top terminal to tune to a particular channel or program corresponding to the tuning information provided in the control message. The SDV manager may in accordance with a playlist send one or more control messages to the STB . The one or more control messages include tuning information for tuning to one or more programs or channels at times indicated in the playlist .

Referring to in some implementations the playlist shows time channel program and rating information of items added to the playlist by a subscriber. A parent may use a convenient internet based interface e.g. via parental control server to develop a playlist for viewing by a child. Since the playlist is created from an internet based webpage the playlist may be created while the subscriber is in the home or away. The playlist is created using an internet based version of the electronic program guide available on the STB . This playlist is combined with a calendar function that allows for the playlist to be repeated each weekday. Once the playlist is established the playlist is executed each day by the Switched Video Manager SVM e.g. SDV manager or session manager. The subscriber has selected programming that begins at 3 00 PM 3 30 PM 4 00 PM and 4 30 PM. The SVM will send force tune messages to the STB in order to execute the playlist at each pertinent time interval and tune to the desired channel or program. In the example shown the SVM would send a force tune to PBS at 3 00 PM. Implementing a playlist of this type creates what is often called a walled garden for a child. For example the child would return from school and simply turn on the television. The headend using a session manager tunes to programming for the child at the appropriate time as dictated by the playlist .

At step one or more channel change control messages are sent to the client device in accordance with the playlist . The one or more channel change control messages may include tuning information for tuning to one or more programs or channels at times indicated in the playlist .

In some implementations the one or more channel change control messages may be implemented using protocols of a Switched Digital Video SDV system. In this embodiment a session manager e.g. SDV manager or Switched Video Manager SVM implements the playlist received from the subscriber control server. At appropriate times dictated by the playlist channel change control messages are sent to the client e.g. STB in order to force tune to a channel or program. In some examples the one or more channel change control messages are implemented using a subset of channel change protocols deployed in a mini client e.g. a driver to provide channel change messages in non Switched Digital Video SDV systems.

In some implementations channel changes via the client remote control are disabled during implementation of the playlist . When channel changes are disabled the session manager receives a channel change request from the client . In response to the channel change request the session manager responds by sending tuning information in accordance with the playlist e.g. tuning information associated with the timing information located in the presently implemented playlist.

The processes described above including but not limited to those presented in connection with may be implemented in general multi purpose or single purpose processors. Such a processor will execute instructions either at the assembly compiled or machine level to perform that process. Those instructions can be written by one of ordinary skill in the art following the description of presented above and stored or transmitted on a computer readable medium e.g. a non transitory computer readable medium. The instructions may also be created using source code or any other known computer aided design tool. A computer readable medium may be any medium capable of carrying those instructions and include a CD ROM DVD magnetic or other optical disc tape silicon memory e.g. removable non removable volatile or non volatile packetized or non packetized wireline or wireless transmission signals.

A method and apparatus has been described for allowing SDV system subscribers to conveniently establish programming playlists that may be implemented in a residential or other environment. The playlist is implemented by the SDV manager or other appropriate entity by forcing the set top terminal e.g. a client or other subscriber end device to tune to programming or channels in accordance with a pre defined playlist .

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the disclosure or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular implementations of the disclosure. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate implementations can also be implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single implementation can also be implemented in multiple implementations separately or in any suitable sub combination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a sub combination or variation of a sub combination.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results.

