---

title: Systems and methods for end-to-end secure link between a near-field communication (NFC) chip and server
abstract: Systems and method of the present solution are directed to authenticating and updating a near-field-communication (NFC) chip over a network. According to one aspect, a method of authenticating and updating a NFC chip over a network includes identifying, by a device, a NFC chip of the device. The NFC chip is configured with an identification code established by a NFC server to uniquely identify the NFC chip. The method includes sending, by the device, a signal that includes the identification code over a network to the NFC server. The method further includes establishing a secure communication link over the network between the NFC server and the device responsive to authenticating the NFC chip by the NFC server via the identification code. The method also includes receiving, by the device via the secure communication link, data from the NFC server to store to the NFC chip and storing, by the device, the data to the NFC chip.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09524407&OS=09524407&RS=09524407
owner: CELLUM INNOVACIOS ES SZOLGALTATO ZRT.
number: 09524407
owner_city: Budapest
owner_country: HU
publication_date: 20140811
---
A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the file or records of the Patent and Trademark Office but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

Near field communication NFC is a set of standards for smartphones and similar devices to establish radio communication with each other by touching them together or bringing them into proximity usually no more than a few inches. Present and anticipated applications include contactless transactions data exchange and simplified setup of more complex communications such as Wi Fi. Communication is also possible between an NFC device and an unpowered NFC chip called a tag. However NFC has not been as widely adopted as other short range communications technologies in part due to issues with security.

The present solution is directed to an architecture procedure and implementation for emulating authenticating and updating a near field communication NFC chip over a network. According to one aspect a method of authenticating and updating a NFC chip over a network includes identifying by a device a NFC chip of the device. The NFC chip is configured with an identification code established by a NFC server to uniquely identify the NFC chip. The method includes sending by the device a signal that includes the identification code over a network to the NFC server. The method further includes establishing a secure communication link over the network between the NFC server and the device responsive to authenticating the NFC chip by the NFC server via the identification code. The method also includes receiving by the device via the secure communication link data from the NFC server to store to the NFC chip and storing by the device the data to the NFC chip.

In some implementations the method can include writing by the NFC server the identification code to the NFC chip when the NFC chip is locally coupled to the NFC server. In some implementations the method can include identifying by the device the NFC chip via NFC aerials. In some implementations sending by the device a signal that includes the identification code over a network to the NFC server includes sending by the device the signal responsive to identifying the NFC chip. In some implementations sending by the device a signal that includes the identification code over a network to the NFC server includes sending by the device the signal over a mobile network.

In some implementations establishing a secure communication link over the network between the NFC server and the device includes establishing by the NFC server and an agent executing on the device the secure communication channel over a mobile network. In some implementations establishing a secure communication link over the network between the NFC server and the device includes identifying by the NFC server the device and using the identification of the device with the identification code to authenticate the NFC chip.

In some implementations receiving by the device via the secure communication link data from the NFC server to store to the NFC chip includes receiving by an agent executing on the device and in communication with the NFC chip the data. In some implementations the method further includes writing by the agent the data to the NFC chip via NFC aerials. In some implementations the NFC chip is part of a card in communication with the device.

According to another aspect a system of authenticating and updating a near field communication NFC chip over a network includes a device configured to identify a NFC chip of the device. The system also includes an NFC server configured to authenticate and update the NFC chip. The NFC chip can be configured with an identification code established by a NFC server to uniquely identify the NFC chip. The device is configured to send a signal comprising the identification code over a network to the NFC server. The NFC server and the device establish a secure communication link over the network responsive to authenticating the NFC chip by the NFC server via the identification code. The device is configured to receive via the secure communication link data from the NFC server to store to the NFC chip and store the data to the NFC chip.

In some implementations the NFC server is configured to write the identification code to the NFC chip when locally coupled with the NFC chip. In some implementations the device is further configured to identify the NFC chip via NFC aerials. In some implementations the device is further configured to send the signal responsive to identifying the NFC chip.

In some implementations the device is further configured to send the signal over a mobile network. In some implementations the NFC server and an agent executing on the device are configured to establish the secure communication channel over a mobile network.

In some implementations the NFC server is further configured to identify the device and to use the identification of the device with the identification code to authenticate the NFC chip. In some implementations an agent executing on the device and in communication with the NFC chip is configured to receive the data. In some implementations the agent is further configured to write the data to the NFC chip via NFC aerials. In some implementations the NFC chip is part of a card in communication with the device.

According to one aspect of the disclosure a method of emulating a near field communication NFC chip over a network includes identifying by a device a near field communication NFC chip of a reader device. The NFC chip can be configured with an identification code to uniquely identify the reader device. The method can also include sending by the device a signal over a network to a NFC server. The signal can include the identification code. The method can also include establishing a secure communication link between the NFC server and the NFC chip through the device responsive to authenticating the device by the NFC server. In some implementations the method also includes receiving by the device via the secure communication link data from the NFC server to provide to the NFC chip and providing by the device via the secure communication link the data to the NFC chip.

In some implementations the method also includes writing by the NFC server the identification code to the NFC chip when the NFC chip is locally coupled to the NFC server. The method can include identifying by the device the NFC chip via NFC aerials.

In certain implementations the method includes sending over a mobile network by the device the signal responsive to identifying the NFC chip. The method can include establishing by the NFC server and an agent executing on the device the secure communication channel over a mobile network. The method can also include identifying by the NFC server the device and using an identification of the device with the identification code to authenticate the device.

In some implementations the method includes receiving by an agent executing on the device and in communication with the NFC chip the data. The method can also include sending and receiving by the agent the data to the NFC chip via NFC aerials.

According to another aspect of the disclosure a system of emulating a near field communication NFC chip over a network includes a device configured to identify a near field communication NFC chip of a reader device and transmit a signal over a network to a NFC server. The system also includes the NFC server which can be configured to authenticate the device and establish a secure communication link via the device with the NFC chip of the reader device. Establishment of the secure communication link can be made responsive to authenticating the device. The NFC server can also be configured to transmit data to the device and the device is configured to provide the data to the NFC chip.

In some implementations the NFC server can be configured to write the identification code to the NFC chip when locally coupled with the NFC chip. The device can be configured to identify the NFC chip via NFC aerials. The device can be configured to send the signal over a mobile network responsive to identifying the NFC chip. The NFC server and an agent executing on the device can be configured to establish the secure communication channel over a mobile network. The NFC server can identify the device and to use the identification of the device with the identification code to authenticate the NFC chip.

In some implementations the agent executing on the device and in communication with the NFC chip can receive the data from the NFC server. The agent can send and receive the data to the NFC chip via NFC aerials.

According to another aspect of the disclosure a method of updating a near field communication NFC chip over a network can include identifying by a device a near field communication NFC chip. The method can also include establishing a secure communication link between a NFC server and the device. The method may also include receiving a first data from the NFC chip to be transmitted to the NFC server and transmitting the first data received from the NFC chip to the NFC server over the secure communication link.

In some implementations the method can include identifying the NFC chip by an identification code that uniquely identifies the NFC chip. The NFC chip may be identified via NFC aerials. The method can also include establishing the secure communication link between the NFC server and the device over a mobile network.

In some implementations the method includes receiving a second data from the NFC server responsive to the NFC server receiving the first data from the device. The second data can be transmitted to the NFC chip. The second data can be sent to the NFC chip by the device.

According to another aspect of the disclosure a system of updating a near field communication NFC chip over a network can include a device. The device can be configured to identify a near field communication NFC chip transmit a signal over a network to a NFC server and receive a first data from the NFC chip to be transmitted to the NFC server over the network. The system can also include the NFC server configured to receive the first data from the device and transmit a second data to the device responsive to receiving the first data.

In some implementations the device can transmit the second data to the NFC chip. The device may also be able to identify the NFC chip by an identification code that uniquely identifies the NFC chip. The device may include an agent configured to establish a secure communication link between the NFC server and the device over a mobile network. The device may also be configured to send the second data to the NFC chip.

For purposes of reading the description of the various embodiments below the following descriptions of the sections of the specification and their respective contents may be helpful

Section A describes a network environment and computing environment which may be useful for practicing embodiments described herein.

Section B describes embodiments of systems and methods for authenticating and updating a near field communication NFC chip over a network.

Prior to discussing specific embodiments of the present solution it may be helpful to describe aspects of the operating environment as well as associated system components e.g. hardware elements in connection with the methods and systems described herein. Referring to an embodiment of a network environment is depicted. In brief overview the network environment includes one or more clients also generally referred to as local machine s client s client node s client machine s client computer s client device s endpoint s or endpoint node s in communication with one or more servers also generally referred to as server s node or remote machine s via one or more networks . In some embodiments a client has the capacity to function as both a client node seeking access to resources provided by a server and as a server providing access to hosted resources for other clients 

Although shows a network between the clients and the servers the clients and the servers may be on the same network . In some embodiments there are multiple networks between the clients and the servers . In one of these embodiments a network not shown may be a private network and a network may be a public network. In another of these embodiments a network may be a private network and a network a public network. In still another of these embodiments networks and may both be private networks.

The network may be connected via wired or wireless links. Wired links may include Digital Subscriber Line DSL coaxial cable lines or optical fiber lines. The wireless links may include BLUETOOTH Wi Fi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX an infrared channel or satellite band. The wireless links may also include any cellular network standards used to communicate among mobile devices including standards that qualify as 1G 2G 3G or 4G. The network standards may qualify as one or more generation of mobile telecommunication standards by fulfilling a specification or standards such as the specifications maintained by International Telecommunication Union. The 3G standards for example may correspond to the International Mobile Telecommunications 2000 IMT 2000 specification and the 4G standards may correspond to the International Mobile Telecommunications Advanced IMT Advanced specification. Examples of cellular network standards include AMPS GSM GPRS UMTS LTE LTE Advanced Mobile WiMAX and WiMAX Advanced. Cellular network standards may use various channel access methods e.g. FDMA TDMA CDMA or SDMA. In some embodiments different types of data may be transmitted via different links and standards. In other embodiments the same types of data may be transmitted via different links and standards.

The network may be any type and or form of network. The geographical scope of the network may vary widely and the network can be a body area network BAN a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN e.g. Intranet a metropolitan area network MAN a wide area network WAN or the Internet. The topology of the network may be of any form and may include e.g. any of the following point to point bus star ring mesh or tree. The network may be an overlay network which is virtual and sits on top of one or more layers of other networks . The network may be of any such network topology as known to those ordinarily skilled in the art capable of supporting the operations described herein. The network may utilize different techniques and layers or stacks of protocols including e.g. the Ethernet protocol the internet protocol suite TCP IP the ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode technique the SONET Synchronous Optical Networking protocol or the SDH Synchronous Digital Hierarchy protocol. The TCP IP internet protocol suite may include application layer transport layer internet layer including e.g. IPv6 or the link layer. The network may be a type of a broadcast network a telecommunications network a data communication network or a computer network.

In some embodiments the system may include multiple logically grouped servers . In one of these embodiments the logical group of servers may be referred to as a server farm or a machine farm . In another of these embodiments the servers may be geographically dispersed. In other embodiments a machine farm may be administered as a single entity. In still other embodiments the machine farm includes a plurality of machine farms . The servers within each machine farm can be heterogeneous one or more of the servers or machines can operate according to one type of operating system platform e.g. WINDOWS NT manufactured by Microsoft Corp. of Redmond Wash. while one or more of the other servers can operate on according to another type of operating system platform e.g. Unix Linux or Mac OS X .

In one embodiment servers in the machine farm may be stored in high density rack systems along with associated storage systems and located in an enterprise data center. In this embodiment consolidating the servers in this way may improve system manageability data security the physical security of the system and system performance by locating servers and high performance storage systems on localized high performance networks. Centralizing the servers and storage systems and coupling them with advanced system management tools allows more efficient use of server resources.

The servers of each machine farm do not need to be physically proximate to another server in the same machine farm . Thus the group of servers logically grouped as a machine farm may be interconnected using a wide area network WAN connection or a metropolitan area network MAN connection. For example a machine farm may include servers physically located in different continents or different regions of a continent country state city campus or room. Data transmission speeds between servers in the machine farm can be increased if the servers are connected using a local area network LAN connection or some form of direct connection. Additionally a heterogeneous machine farm may include one or more servers operating according to a type of operating system while one or more other servers execute one or more types of hypervisors rather than operating systems. In these embodiments hypervisors may be used to emulate virtual hardware partition physical hardware virtualize physical hardware and execute virtual machines that provide access to computing environments allowing multiple operating systems to run concurrently on a host computer. Native hypervisors may run directly on the host computer. Hypervisors may include VMware ESX ESXi manufactured by VMWare Inc. of Palo Alto Calif. the Xen hypervisor an open source product whose development is overseen by Citrix Systems Inc. the HYPER V hypervisors provided by Microsoft or others. Hosted hypervisors may run within an operating system on a second software level. Examples of hosted hypervisors may include VMware Workstation and VIRTUALBOX.

Management of the machine farm may be de centralized. For example one or more servers may comprise components subsystems and modules to support one or more management services for the machine farm . In one of these embodiments one or more servers provide functionality for management of dynamic data including techniques for handling failover data replication and increasing the robustness of the machine farm . Each server may communicate with a persistent store and in some embodiments with a dynamic store.

Server may be a file server application server web server proxy server appliance network appliance gateway gateway server virtualization server deployment server SSL VPN server or firewall. In one embodiment the server may be referred to as a remote machine or a node. In another embodiment a plurality of nodes may be in the path between any two communicating servers.

Referring to a cloud computing environment is depicted. A cloud computing environment may provide client with one or more resources provided by a network environment. The cloud computing environment may include one or more clients in communication with the cloud over one or more networks . Clients may include e.g. thick clients thin clients and zero clients. A thick client may provide at least some functionality even when disconnected from the cloud or servers . A thin client or a zero client may depend on the connection to the cloud or server to provide functionality. A zero client may depend on the cloud or other networks or servers to retrieve operating system data for the client device. The cloud may include back end platforms e.g. servers storage server farms or data centers.

The cloud may be public private or hybrid. Public clouds may include public servers that are maintained by third parties to the clients or the owners of the clients. The servers may be located off site in remote geographical locations as disclosed above or otherwise. Public clouds may be connected to the servers over a public network. Private clouds may include private servers that are physically maintained by clients or owners of clients. Private clouds may be connected to the servers over a private network . Hybrid clouds may include both the private and public networks and servers .

The cloud may also include a cloud based delivery e.g. Software as a Service SaaS Platform as a Service PaaS and Infrastructure as a Service IaaS . IaaS may refer to a user renting the use of infrastructure resources that are needed during a specified time period. IaaS providers may offer storage networking servers or virtualization resources from large pools allowing the users to quickly scale up by accessing more resources as needed. Examples of IaaS include AMAZON WEB SERVICES provided by Amazon.com Inc. of Seattle Washi. RACKSPACE CLOUD provided by Rackspace US Inc. of San Antonio Tex. Google Compute Engine provided by Google Inc. of Mountain View Calif. or RIGHTSCALE provided by RightScale Inc. of Santa Barbara Calif. PaaS providers may offer functionality provided by IaaS including e.g. storage networking servers or virtualization as well as additional resources such as e.g. the operating system middleware or runtime resources. Examples of PaaS include WINDOWS AZURE provided by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. Google App Engine provided by Google Inc. and HEROKU provided by Heroku Inc. of San Francisco Calif. SaaS providers may offer the resources that PaaS provides including storage networking servers virtualization operating system middleware or runtime resources. In some embodiments SaaS providers may offer additional resources including e.g. data and application resources. Examples of SaaS include GOOGLE APPS provided by Google Inc. SALESFORCE provided by Salesforce.com Inc. of San Francisco Calif. or OFFICE 365 provided by Microsoft Corporation. Examples of SaaS may also include data storage providers e.g. DROPBOX provided by Dropbox Inc. of San Francisco Calif. Microsoft SKYDRIVE provided by Microsoft Corporation Google Drive provided by Google Inc. or Apple ICLOUD provided by Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif.

Clients may access IaaS resources with one or more IaaS standards including e.g. Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud EC2 Open Cloud Computing Interface OCCI Cloud Infrastructure Management Interface CIMI or OpenStack standards. Some IaaS standards may allow clients access to resources over HTTP and may use Representational State Transfer REST protocol or Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP . Clients may access PaaS resources with different PaaS interfaces. Some PaaS interfaces use HTTP packages standard Java APIs JavaMail API Java Data Objects JDO Java Persistence API JPA Python APIs web integration APIs for different programming languages including e.g. Rack for Ruby WSGI for Python or PSGI for Perl or other APIs that may be built on REST HTTP XML or other protocols. Clients may access SaaS resources through the use of web based user interfaces provided by a web browser e.g. GOOGLE CHROME Microsoft INTERNET EXPLORER or Mozilla Firefox provided by Mozilla Foundation of Mountain View Calif. . Clients may also access SaaS resources through smartphone or tablet applications including e.g. Salesforce Sales Cloud or Google Drive app. Clients may also access SaaS resources through the client operating system including e.g. Windows file system for DROPBOX.

In some embodiments access to IaaS PaaS or SaaS resources may be authenticated. For example a server or authentication server may authenticate a user via security certificates HTTPS or API keys. API keys may include various encryption standards such as e.g. Advanced Encryption Standard AES . Data resources may be sent over Transport Layer Security TLS or Secure Sockets Layer SSL .

The client and server may be deployed as and or executed on any type and form of computing device e.g. a computer network device or appliance capable of communicating on any type and form of network and performing the operations described herein. depict block diagrams of a computing device useful for practicing an embodiment of the client or a server . As shown in each computing device includes a central processing unit and a main memory unit . As shown in a computing device may include a storage device an installation device a network interface an I O controller display devices a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse. The storage device may include without limitation an operating system software and a software of the NFC application such as agent . As shown in each computing device may also include additional optional elements e.g. a memory port a bridge one or more input output devices generally referred to using reference numeral and a cache memory in communication with the central processing unit .

The central processing unit is any logic circuitry that responds to and processes instructions fetched from the main memory unit . In many embodiments the central processing unit is provided by a microprocessor unit e.g. those manufactured by Intel Corporation of Mountain View Calif. those manufactured by Motorola Corporation of Schaumburg Ill. the ARM processor and TEGRA system on a chip SoC manufactured by Nvidia of Santa Clara Calif. the POWER7 processor those manufactured by International Business Machines of White Plains N.Y. or those manufactured by Advanced Micro Devices of Sunnyvale Calif. The computing device may be based on any of these processors or any other processor capable of operating as described herein. The central processing unit may utilize instruction level parallelism thread level parallelism different levels of cache and multi core processors. A multi core processor may include two or more processing units on a single computing component. Examples of a multi core processors include the AMD PHENOM IIX2 INTEL CORE i5 and INTEL CORE i7.

Main memory unit may include one or more memory chips capable of storing data and allowing any storage location to be directly accessed by the microprocessor . Main memory unit may be volatile and faster than storage memory. Main memory units may be Dynamic random access memory DRAM or any variants including static random access memory SRAM Burst SRAM or SynchBurst SRAM BSRAM Fast Page Mode DRAM FPM DRAM Enhanced DRAM EDRAM Extended Data Output RAM EDO RAM Extended Data Output DRAM EDO DRAM Burst Extended Data Output DRAM BEDO DRAM Single Data Rate Synchronous DRAM SDR SDRAM Double Data Rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM Direct Rambus DRAM DRDRAM or Extreme Data Rate DRAM XDR DRAM . In some embodiments the main memory or the storage may be non volatile e.g. non volatile read access memory NVRAM flash memory non volatile static RAM nvSRAM Ferroelectric RAM FeRAM Magnetoresistive RAM MRAM Phase change memory PRAM conductive bridging RAM CBRAM Silicon Oxide Nitride Oxide Silicon SONOS Resistive RAM RRAM Racetrack Nano RAM NRAM or Millipede memory. The main memory may be based on any of the above described memory chips or any other available memory chips capable of operating as described herein. In the embodiment shown in the processor communicates with main memory via a system bus described in more detail below . depicts an embodiment of a computing device in which the processor communicates directly with main memory via a memory port . For example in the main memory may be DRDRAM.

A wide variety of I O devices may be present in the computing device . Input devices may include keyboards mice trackpads trackballs touchpads touch mice multi touch touchpads and touch mice microphones multi array microphones drawing tablets cameras single lens reflex camera SLR digital SLR DSLR CMOS sensors accelerometers infrared optical sensors pressure sensors magnetometer sensors angular rate sensors depth sensors proximity sensors ambient light sensors gyroscopic sensors or other sensors. Output devices may include video displays graphical displays speakers headphones inkjet printers laser printers and 3D printers.

Devices may include a combination of multiple input or output devices including e.g. Microsoft KINECT Nintendo Wiimote for the WII Nintendo WII U GAMEPAD or Apple IPHONE. Some devices allow gesture recognition inputs through combining some of the inputs and outputs. Some devices provides for facial recognition which may be utilized as an input for different purposes including authentication and other commands. Some devices provides for voice recognition and inputs including e.g. Microsoft KINECT SIRI for IPHONE by Apple Google Now or Google Voice Search.

Additional devices have both input and output capabilities including e.g. haptic feedback devices touchscreen displays or multi touch displays. Touchscreen multi touch displays touchpads touch mice or other touch sensing devices may use different technologies to sense touch including e.g. capacitive surface capacitive projected capacitive touch PCT in cell capacitive resistive infrared waveguide dispersive signal touch DST in cell optical surface acoustic wave SAW bending wave touch BWT or force based sensing technologies. Some multi touch devices may allow two or more contact points with the surface allowing advanced functionality including e.g. pinch spread rotate scroll or other gestures. Some touchscreen devices including e.g. Microsoft PIXELSENSE or Multi Touch Collaboration Wall may have larger surfaces such as on a table top or on a wall and may also interact with other electronic devices. Some I O devices display devices or group of devices may be augment reality devices. The I O devices may be controlled by an I O controller as shown in . The I O controller may control one or more I O devices such as e.g. a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or optical pen. Furthermore an I O device may also provide storage and or an installation medium for the computing device . In still other embodiments the computing device may provide USB connections not shown to receive handheld USB storage devices. In further embodiments an I O device may be a bridge between the system bus and an external communication bus e.g. a USB bus a SCSI bus a FireWire bus an Ethernet bus a Gigabit Ethernet bus a Fibre Channel bus or a Thunderbolt bus.

In some embodiments display devices may be connected to I O controller . Display devices may include e.g. liquid crystal displays LCD thin film transistor LCD TFT LCD blue phase LCD electronic papers e ink displays flexile displays light emitting diode displays LED digital light processing DLP displays liquid crystal on silicon LCOS displays organic light emitting diode OLED displays active matrix organic light emitting diode AMOLED displays liquid crystal laser displays time multiplexed optical shutter TMOS displays or 3D displays. Examples of 3D displays may use e.g. stereoscopy polarization filters active shutters or autostereoscopy. Display devices may also be a head mounted display HMD . In some embodiments display devices or the corresponding I O controllers may be controlled through or have hardware support for OPENGL or DIRECTX API or other graphics libraries.

In some embodiments the computing device may include or connect to multiple display devices which each may be of the same or different type and or form. As such any of the I O devices and or the I O controller may include any type and or form of suitable hardware software or combination of hardware and software to support enable or provide for the connection and use of multiple display devices by the computing device . For example the computing device may include any type and or form of video adapter video card driver and or library to interface communicate connect or otherwise use the display devices . In one embodiment a video adapter may include multiple connectors to interface to multiple display devices . In other embodiments the computing device may include multiple video adapters with each video adapter connected to one or more of the display devices . In some embodiments any portion of the operating system of the computing device may be configured for using multiple displays . In other embodiments one or more of the display devices may be provided by one or more other computing devices or connected to the computing device via the network . In some embodiments software may be designed and constructed to use another computer s display device as a second display device for the computing device . For example in one embodiment an Apple iPad may connect to a computing device and use the display of the device as an additional display screen that may be used as an extended desktop. One ordinarily skilled in the art will recognize and appreciate the various ways and embodiments that a computing device may be configured to have multiple display devices 

Referring again to the computing device may comprise a storage device e.g. one or more hard disk drives or redundant arrays of independent disks for storing an operating system or other related software and for storing application software programs such as any program related to the software for the NFC application. Examples of storage device include e.g. hard disk drive HDD optical drive including CD drive DVD drive or BLU RAY drive solid state drive SSD USB flash drive or any other device suitable for storing data. Some storage devices may include multiple volatile and non volatile memories including e.g. solid state hybrid drives that combine hard disks with solid state cache. Some storage device may be non volatile mutable or read only. Some storage device may be internal and connect to the computing device via a bus . Some storage device may be external and connect to the computing device via a I O device that provides an external bus. Some storage device may connect to the computing device via the network interface over a network including e.g. the Remote Disk for MACBOOK AIR by Apple. Some client devices may not require a non volatile storage device and may be thin clients or zero clients . Some storage device may also be used as an installation device and may be suitable for installing software and programs. Additionally the operating system and the software can be run from a bootable medium for example a bootable CD e.g. KNOPPIX a bootable CD for GNU Linux that is available as a GNU Linux distribution from knoppix.net.

Client device may also install software or application from an application distribution platform. Examples of application distribution platforms include the App Store for iOS provided by Apple Inc. the Mac App Store provided by Apple Inc. GOOGLE PLAY for Android OS provided by Google Inc. Chrome Webstore for CHROME OS provided by Google Inc. and Amazon Appstore for Android OS and KINDLE FIRE provided by Amazon.com Inc. An application distribution platform may facilitate installation of software on a client device . An application distribution platform may include a repository of applications on a server or a cloud which the clients may access over a network . An application distribution platform may include application developed and provided by various developers. A user of a client device may select purchase and or download an application via the application distribution platform.

Furthermore the computing device may include a network interface to interface to the network through a variety of connections including but not limited to standard telephone lines LAN or WAN links e.g. 802.11 T1 T3 Gigabit Ethernet Infiniband broadband connections e.g. ISDN Frame Relay ATM Gigabit Ethernet Ethernet over SONET ADSL VDSL BPON GPON fiber optical including FiOS wireless connections or some combination of any or all of the above. Connections can be established using a variety of communication protocols e.g. TCP IP Ethernet ARCNET SONET SDH Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI IEEE 802.11a b g n ac CDMA GSM WiMax and direct asynchronous connections . In one embodiment the computing device communicates with other computing devices via any type and or form of gateway or tunneling protocol e.g. Secure Socket Layer SSL or Transport Layer Security TLS or the Citrix Gateway Protocol manufactured by Citrix Systems Inc. of Ft. Lauderdale Fla. The network interface may comprise a built in network adapter network interface card PCMCIA network card EXPRESSCARD network card card bus network adapter wireless network adapter USB network adapter modem or any other device suitable for interfacing the computing device to any type of network capable of communication and performing the operations described herein.

A computing device of the sort depicted in may operate under the control of an operating system which controls scheduling of tasks and access to system resources. The computing device can be running any operating system such as any of the versions of the MICROSOFT WINDOWS operating systems the different releases of the Unix and Linux operating systems any version of the MAC OS for Macintosh computers any embedded operating system any real time operating system any open source operating system any proprietary operating system any operating systems for mobile computing devices or any other operating system capable of running on the computing device and performing the operations described herein. Typical operating systems include but are not limited to WINDOWS 2000 WINDOWS Server 2012 WINDOWS CE WINDOWS Phone WINDOWS XP WINDOWS VISTA and WINDOWS 7 WINDOWS RT and WINDOWS 8 all of which are manufactured by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. MAC OS and iOS manufactured by Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. and Linux a freely available operating system e.g. Linux Mint distribution distro or Ubuntu distributed by Canonical Ltd. of London United Kingdom or Unix or other Unix like derivative operating systems and Android designed by Google of Mountain View Calif. among others. Some operating systems including e.g. the CHROME OS by Google may be used on zero clients or thin clients including e.g. CHROMEBOOKS.

The computer system can be any workstation telephone desktop computer laptop or notebook computer netbook ULTRABOOK tablet server handheld computer mobile telephone smartphone or other portable telecommunications device media playing device a gaming system mobile computing device or any other type and or form of computing telecommunications or media device that is capable of communication. The computer system has sufficient processor power and memory capacity to perform the operations described herein. In some embodiments the computing device may have different processors operating systems and input devices consistent with the device. The Samsung GALAXY smartphones e.g. operate under the control of Android operating system developed by Google Inc. GALAXY smartphones receive input via a touch interface.

In some embodiments the computing device is a gaming system. For example the computer system may comprise a PLAYSTATION 3 or PERSONAL PLAYSTATION PORTABLE PSP or a PLAYSTATION VITA device manufactured by the Sony Corporation of Tokyo Japan a NINTENDO DS NINTENDO 3DS NINTENDO WII or a NINTENDO WII U device manufactured by Nintendo Co. Ltd. of Kyoto Japan an XBOX 360 device manufactured by the Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash.

In some embodiments the computing device is a digital audio player such as the Apple IPOD IPOD Touch and IPOD NANO lines of devices manufactured by Apple Computer of Cupertino Calif. Some digital audio players may have other functionality including e.g. a gaming system or any functionality made available by an application from a digital application distribution platform. For example the IPOD Touch may access the Apple App Store. In some embodiments the computing device is a portable media player or digital audio player supporting file formats including but not limited to MP3 WAV M4A AAC WMA Protected AAC AIFF Audible audiobook Apple Lossless audio file formats and .mov .m4v and .mp4 MPEG 4 H.264 MPEG 4 AVC video file formats.

In some embodiments the computing device is a tablet e.g. the IPAD line of devices by Apple GALAXY TAB family of devices by Samsung or KINDLE FIRE by Amazon.com Inc. of Seattle Wash. In other embodiments the computing device is a eBook reader e.g. the KINDLE family of devices by Amazon.com or NOOK family of devices by Barnes Noble Inc. of New York City N.Y.

In some embodiments the communications device includes a combination of devices e.g. a smartphone combined with a digital audio player or portable media player. For example one of these embodiments is a smartphone e.g. the IPHONE family of smartphones manufactured by Apple Inc. a Samsung GALAXY family of smartphones manufactured by Samsung Inc or a Motorola DROID family of smartphones. In yet another embodiment the communications device is a laptop or desktop computer equipped with a web browser and a microphone and speaker system e.g. a telephony headset. In these embodiments the communications devices are web enabled and can receive and initiate phone calls. In some embodiments a laptop or desktop computer is also equipped with a webcam or other video capture device that enables video chat and video call.

In some embodiments the status of one or more machines in the network is monitored generally as part of network management. In one of these embodiments the status of a machine may include an identification of load information e.g. the number of processes on the machine CPU and memory utilization of port information e.g. the number of available communication ports and the port addresses or of session status e.g. the duration and type of processes and whether a process is active or idle . In another of these embodiments this information may be identified by a plurality of metrics and the plurality of metrics can be applied at least in part towards decisions in load distribution network traffic management and network failure recovery as well as any aspects of operations of the present solution described herein. Aspects of the operating environments and components described above will become apparent in the context of the systems and methods disclosed herein.

An NFC chip is able to store various types of data allowing NFC chips to be used in a wide variety of applications. Examples of the types of data an NFC chip can store include static information such as a bank account number or bank card data or dynamic information for example a remaining bank balance credit values amongst others. The data stored on a NFC chip can be updated by providing the updated data to the NFC chip in an online environment in which the uploading device as well as the device coupled to the NFC chip are in an online connection with each other through the NFC operational supporting architecture.

The present solution allows an NFC back end server to remotely store data to an NFC chip without requiring the NFC back end server and NFC chip to be in communication through an NFC operational architecture. The present disclosure utilizes an intermediary device such as a smartphone or other device with NFC reading and writing capability like point of sale POS terminal with NFC extension configured to relay communications between the NFC chip and the NFC back end server across a plurality of different networks such that the NFC back end server can store data to the NFC chip without requiring the need for the NFC chip to establish direct connection with the NFC back end server through the NFC operational supporting architecture. In some implementations the present disclosure can also establish an end to end security solution between the NFC chip and the NFC back end server reducing the faults and or data loss failures of the data transmission to zero.

The present solution also enables a mobile device such as a smart phone to emulate a NFC medium. In some implementations a NFC medium is presented to a NFC chip to transfer data between the NFC medium and the NFC chip. The transferred data may be used for example to authenticate a user or in a contactless payment system. In the present solution the mobile device emulating a NFC medium may be presented to a NFC chip. The mobile device may then establish a secure communication link between a NFC server and the NFC chip. The device can act as a proxy between the NFC server and the NFC chip such that the NFC server may bidirectional communicate with the NFC chip. In some implementations the NFC server provides to the NFC chip data that would typically be stored on a NFC medium. In some implementations the user of the device s interact with the NFC chip is not dependent solely on possession of the NFC medium but also the user s ability to authenticate with the NFC server. For example the NFC server may request a password from the user prior to providing a key to the NFC chip.

The present disclosure can rely on an online architecture that includes an NFC chip an NFC back end server an intermediary device that can communicate with the NFC chip and the NFC back end server which can be any type of server that may desire to update data stored on the NFC chip. Examples of such back end servers can include a banking card server or other value carrier medium issuer and registration server.

Referring now to the systems and methods of the architecture process and implementation of authenticating and updating a NFC chip over a network will be described. In general depicts an environment for authenticating an updating a NFC chip over a network. The system illustrated in enables data typically stored on the NFC chip to be disconnected e.g. stored in a secure remote location from the NFC chip. For example the bank account balance that may typically be stored on a debit card with a NFC chip may be stored on a NFC back end server. The data may then be stored and managed independently of the NFC chip. When needed the NFC data may be transferred to the NFC chip through a user s mobile device or other device capable of reading and writing to a NFC medium . In some implementations the system illustrated in can enable the management of the data on the NFC chip as if the NFC chip was integrated into the user mobile phone. In some implementations a plurality of NFC chips can be managed by the same mobile device. In some implementations bidirectional communication can occur between the NFC chip and the NFC server through the user s mobile device.

The environment illustrated in can include an NFC chip a mobile device such as a smartphone a network and an NFC back end server . The mobile device such as via agent can serve as a bridge proxy or intermediary between the NFC chip and the NFC server . The mobile device can be configured to communicate with the NFC chip via NFC aerials or antennas. The mobile device can be configured to communicate with the NFC server via a network such as a mobile or cellular network for example GSM or WiFi. In some implementations the mobile device via the agent establishes a first communication channel session or connection with the NFC chip and a second communication channel session or connection with the NFC server and associates the two for sending and receiving data between the NFC chip and the NFC server. In some implementations the mobile device via agent proxies data communicated over a communication channel session or connection between the NFC chip and the NFC server or between the agent and the NFC server.

The NFC chip can be designed constructed or configured to store the identification code and one or more values . The NFC chip may be embedded installed integrated or manufactured into the device or external to the device. In some implementations the NFC chip may be an electronic card device or peripheral in electronic or electric communication or electronically electrically coupled to the device. For example the NFC chip may be a component of a NFC smart card which is managed using the system and methods described herein. The values stored on the NFC chip can correspond to static information such as a bank account number or bank card data or dynamic information for example a remaining bank balance credit values amongst others. The NFC chip can be configured to update the stored value by receiving the updated value via NFC aerials that establish a connection between the NFC chip and the mobile device . In some implementations the mobile device can provide the updated value to the NFC chip responsive to receiving the updated value from the NFC server over a cellular network.

In some implementations both the NFC chip and the mobile device can include NFC aerials or antennas. In some implementations the NFC aerials can be built in the NFC chip and the mobile device .

In some implementations the mobile device can be configured to establish communications with the NFC chip . In some implementations the mobile device can establish communications by sending instructions to the NFC chip via NFC aerials. In some implementations the mobile device via the agent can be configured to establish a secured link or communication channel between the NFC chip and the NFC server . In some implementations the mobile device and the NFC server can establish a secured link via internet or cellular based networks such as GSM. By establishing the secured link the NFC server can send and receive information to the NFC chip via the device . In some implementations the device acts as a secure proxy between the NFC chip and the NFC server .

In some implementations the mobile device can include an agent that can be configured to retrieve or identify the identification code stored on the NFC chip . The agent can further be configured to send the identification code of the NFC chip to the NFC server . In some implementations the agent can be configured to generate a data packet in which the identification code is included in the payload of the data packet and sent the data packet to the NFC server .

In some implementations the agent can be configured to receive data from the NFC server . In some implementations the agent can be configured to identify and or authenticate the NFC server. In some implementations the data received by the agent can include a request to update a value stored on the NFC chip associated with the mobile device . In some implementations the request can include information that identifies the NFC chip . In some implementations responsive to receiving the request the agent can identify the NFC chip to update based on the information that identifies the NFC chip included in the request.

In some implementations the agent can be configured to establish a connection with the NFC chip via the NFC aerials. The agent can then provide the updated value included in the request to the NFC chip . In some implementations the updated value is provided such that the NFC chip can replace an existing value stored on the NFC chip with the updated value provided by the NFC server . In some implementations the agent can be configured to store the updated value on the NFC chip . In some implementations the agent can be configured to store the updated value on the NFC chip by replacing the previously stored value on the NFC chip with the updated value.

Each and or any of the components of the NFC server may include or be implemented as one or more applications programs libraries scripts services processes tasks and or any type and form of executable instructions executing on one or more devices such as any of the servers . In some implementations the NFC server may be designed constructed or configured to configure NFC chips such as the NFC chip with an identification code that is established by the NFC server. In some implementations the NFC server may configure the NFC chip with the identification code that allows the NFC server to uniquely identify the NFC chip . In some implementations the NFC server can configure the NFC chip with the identification code when the NFC server and the NFC chip are locally coupled that is when the NFC server and the NFC chip are part of the same local network or are directly in communication with one another. In some implementations the NFC server may be directly in communication with the NFC chip via a physical connection between the NFC server and the NFC chip or via a wireless connection between the NFC server and the NFC chip .

In some implementations the NFC server can be configured to receive a data packet from the mobile device associated with the NFC chip . In some implementations the NFC server can receive the data packet from the mobile device over a secure link via the network . The network may include cellular internet based networks or a combination thereof. In some implementations the NFC server and NFC chip via the mobile device can establish a secure link over one or more networks . The secure link may comprise a security protocol such as a Secure Socket Layer SSL or Transport Layer Security TLS to establish a secure session between the device and the NFC server. The secure link may comprise any type and form of secure tunnel. The secure link may comprise any type and form of encryption of communications between the device and the NFC server.

To establish the secure link the mobile device can send a signal to the NFC server to establish the connection or vice versa. In some implementations the mobile device can include the identification code of the NFC chip associated with the mobile device . The NFC server can be configured to receive the signal and identify the identification code from the signal. The NFC server can be configured to determine that the identification code matches an identification code previously established by the NFC server . In some implementations the NFC server can authenticate the mobile device sending the signal responsive to determining that the identification code corresponds to an identification code previously established by the NFC server.

In some implementations the NFC server can be configured to identify an identification code included in the data packet. The NFC server can determine whether the identified identification code matches an identification code that the NFC server previously established for storing on an NFC chip. In some implementations the NFC server can include a database that includes a list of all identification codes established by the NFC server . In some implementations the database can include one or more entries corresponding to each NFC chip for which the NFC server established an identification code. Each entry can include an identification code of the NFC chip and a device identifier of the mobile device associated with the NFC chip such as a MAC ID a device ID an IMEI number amongst others. The entry can also include a network address of the device identifier such as a phone number or IP address. The entry can also include one or more values currently stored on the NFC chip as well as one more values previously stored on the NFC chip .

In some implementations the NFC server can be configured to communicate with one or more other servers that may provide the NFC server with values to store on the NFC chip. In some implementations the device can be configured to communicate with one or more servers. The NFC server can send a request to a mobile device corresponding to the NFC chip on which the NFC server would like to store an updated value. The NFC server can be configured to identify the mobile device corresponding to the NFC chip on which the NFC server would like to store an updated value by performing a lookup in the database to identify the mobile device corresponding to an entry associated with the NFC chip. In some implementations each entry can be associated with a particular user identifier. In some implementations the NFC server can identify the mobile device by performing a lookup in the database to identify the mobile device corresponding to an entry associated with the user identifier. The NFC server can initiate communications with the mobile device via one or more cellular networks. The NFC server and the mobile device can then establish a connection through which the mobile device can receive the updated value to be stored on the NFC chip.

In further details of step the device identifies or detects a NFC chip. The NFC chip may be a component of the device or external to the device e.g. a NFC smart card . In some implementations the device can identify or detect the NFC chip via NFC aerials or antennas. In some implementations the NFC chip of the device can store an identification code. The device may obtain the identification code stored in the NFC chip such as at predetermined location or storage address on the NFC chip. The device may obtain the identification code responsive to detecting the presence of the NFC chip. In some implementations the identification code can be stored on the NFC chip via a writing process. In some implementations an NFC back end server can send the identification code to the NFC chip when the NFC chip is locally coupled to the NFC back end server. In some implementations the NFC chip is locally coupled to the NFC back end server when the NFC chip and the NFC back end server are communicating via a local network or if the NFC chip and the NFC back end server are physically coupled to one another.

At step the device can send a signal that includes the identification code over a network to the NFC server. In some implementations the device can send the signal responsive to identifying the NFC chip. In some implementations the device can send the signal over a cellular or internet based network. In some such implementations the device can create one or more data packets that include the identification code to send to the NFC server. In some implementations the device can encapsulate the identification code within a data packet that is transmitted from the device to the NFC server over one or more networks including a cellular network a local area network and a wide area network amongst others.

At step the device can establish a secure communication link over the network between the NFC server and the NFC chip. In some implementations an agent executing on the device can establish a secure communication channel between the NFC chip and the NFC server over a network. In some implementations the agent identifies and or authenticates the NFC server. In some implementations the device can establish a secure communication link or a plurality of links over one or more networks including a cellular network a local area network and a wide area network amongst others. In some implementations the NFC server can identify the device providing the identification code of the NFC chip using an identifier unique to the device and the identification code associated with the NFC chip. In some implementations the NFC server can authenticate the NFC chip by receiving the identification code and comparing the received identification code to an identification code previously stored to the NFC chip.

At step the device can receive via the secure communication link data from the NFC server to provide to the NFC chip. In some implementations the agent executing on the device and in communication with the NFC chip receives the data to provide to the NFC chip from the NFC server. In some implementations the agent can read and write the data to the NFC chip via NFC aerials. In some implementations the NFC chip is part of a card in communication with the device.

At step the device sends the data to the NFC chip. In some implementations the device can send the data to the NFC chip via NFC aerials. The NFC chip may store data to predetermined locations in storage on the NFC ship. In some implementations provided data updates an existing data element on the NFC chip with an updated value. In some implementations the data is stored on the NFC chip as new data element with an initial value. In some implementations the device and the NFC chip iteratively send and receive data to establish a bidirectional communication between the NFC chip and the NFC server.

Depending on the type of application the NFC server may update via the secure end to end communication to the device the NFC chip with data values in the context of the application. NFC chips can be used in contactless payment systems such as for credit cards and electronic ticket smartcards and allow mobile payment to replace or supplement these systems. NFC offers a low speed connection with extremely simple setup and can be used to bootstrap more capable wireless connections. NFC can be used in social networking situations such as sharing contacts photos videos or files and entering multiplayer mobile games. In the field of social networking NFC chips may be useful to exchange contacts and other files.

As set forth above the device identifies or detects a NFC chip step . In some implementations the device can identify or detect the NFC chip via NFC aerials or antennas. In some implementations the NFC chip of the device can store an identification code that identifies the NFC chip to the device. In addition to the identification code the NFC chip may store additional information such as bank balance or other banking information identification information or ticket information.

At step the device can establish a secure communication link with the NFC server. The secure link may comprise a security protocol such as a Secure Socket Layer SSL or Transport Layer Security TLS to establish a secure session between the device and the NFC server. The secure link may comprise any type and form of secure tunnel. The secure link may comprise any type and form of encryption of communications between the device and the NFC server. In some implementations the secure link is established between the NFC server and the NFC chip via an agent on the device which acts as a proxy between the NFC server and the NFC chip.

A step the device can receive data from the NFC chip. The device may obtain the above described data from NFC chip. In some implementations the data is received over a wireless link made between the NFC aerials of the NFC chip and the device.

At step the device can transmit the data to the NFC server. In some implementations the data transmitted from the device the NFC server over a mobile network. In some such implementations the device can create one or more data packets that include the identification code and other data to send to the NFC server. In some implementations the device can encapsulate the identification code and data within a data packet that is transmitted from the device to the NFC server over one or more networks including a cellular network a local area network and a wide area network amongst others.

Referring to in greater detail the system can include a NFC server which can include a database and a NFC application . The NFC server is in communication with a device . The device can include an agent and a NFC chip . The device can be in communication with a NFC reader which can include a NFC chip a secure access module and a log .

The system as illustrated includes a NFC reader . The NFC reader can be any type of device that includes a NFC chip . For example the NFC reader may be or be a component of a POS a ticketing and boarding station an ATM a contactless payment system or a security checkpoint. In some implementations a user may present a NFC medium a device including a NFC chip such as a NFC smart card to the NFC reader to authenticate with the NFC reader . The term authenticate is used generically to refer to the successful transmission of data between two NFC chips. For example a user may present a security badge which includes a NFC chip to a NFC reader. The NFC chip of the badge may include an identification number that when presented to the NFC reader provides the user with access to a restricted area. In some implementations the NFC reader may read the identification number or key stored on an NFC medium. The key may be passed to an access module which compares the key against the log . If the key is found on in the log then the bearer of the NFC medium is authenticated with the NFC reader . The NFC chip of the NFC reader may also include an identification number that enables the device to identify the NFC reader . The identification number of the NFC chip of the NFC reader may be a device identifier such as a MAC ID an IMEI number unique identification number IP address or a combination thereof.

The device of the system can emulate the above descried NFC medium and can be used to authenticate the user of the device with the NFC reader . The device can include a NFC chip which can be in communication via the NFC chip s aerials with the NFC chip of the NFC reader . The agent can be a program or script that sends and receives data to the NFC reader via the NFC chip of the device . In some implementations the device emulating a NFC medium does not store the required identification code or key to be authenticated with the NFC reader . In some implementations the device is configured to recognize the NFC chip of the NFC reader receiving identification from NFC chip of a device and begin a secure communication between the NFC server and the NFC chip of the NFC reader . The NFC server may then return the required identification code or key to the device which acts as a proxy and forwards the key to the NFC chip of the NFC reader . In this configuration the device can emulate a NFC medium to authenticate with a NFC reader without originally possessing the key required to authenticate with the NFC reader . In some implementations the NFC server can be configured to authenticate the user of the device through the agent . For example before a key is forwarded to the device from the server to be provided to the NFC reader the agent may prompt the user for a password. In some implementations the NFC server may forward a key to the device prior to the device s recognition of the NFC reader. For example the agent may be stored on the smartphones of the employees of a company. The employees may use their smart phones to emulate NFC medium for gaining access to restricted portions of a facility. The employer may regularly update the keys required to access the restricted portions. Rather than distributing new physical NFC medium to each of the employees when the keys are changed the employer may through the system and methods described herein push the new keys to the employee s smartphones such that the smart phones may emulate the new NFC medium with the new keys.

The NFC server of the system may be similar to the NFC server described above in relation to . The components of the NFC server may include or be implemented as one or more applications programs libraries scripts services processes tasks and or any type and form of executable instructions. The NFC server includes a NFC application that can be in communication with the device . The NFC application may provide identification codes or keys to the NFC chip of the device . The NFC application can be configured to receive an identification code from the device which was received by the device from the NFC reader . The NFC server may reference the identification code against the database to determine what data such as a key to forward to the NFC reader via the device .

As set forth above the method can include identifying a NFC chip of a reader device step . In some implementations the NFC chip is identified by a device such as a smartphone or other mobile device. The device may also include a NFC chip and be configured to send and receive data with other NFC chips wirelessly through NFC aerials. The NFC chip of the reader device may include a unique identification number. The identification number may be used by the device or the NFC server to uniquely identify the reader device. In some implementations the identification number of the NFC chip of the NFC reader is transferred to the device though magnetic induction created between the aerials of the NFC chip of the device and reader when the device and reader are proximately located to one another.

At step the identification number is transmitted from the device to a NFC server. In some implementations the reader device may expect a predetermined response back from the device once the device receives the identification number from the reader. For example the reader device may be contactless payment kiosk and may require a key number of an authenticated user e.g. the holder of the device before transferring funds. The device may transmit the identification number from the reader device to the NFC server. The server may then select a key associated with the identification number from a database.

At step a secure communication link is established with the NFC chip of the reader device through the device. The secure communications link can be established via the device between the NFC chip of the reader device and the NFC server over one or more networks including a cellular network a local area network a wide area network or a combination thereof. In some implementations the user of the device authenticates with the NFC server before the secure communication link is established. For example the user may present the device to a NFC reader. The NFC reader may transmit an identification to the device which is forwarded to the NFC server by the device. Responsive to receiving the signal and identification number from the device the NFC server may request that the user of the device authenticate with the NFC server by entering a password pin biometric identification or other form of identification. The user authentication may be sent to the NFC server by the agent executing on the device. If the user does not or cannot authenticate with the NFC server the method may end.

At step data is transmitted to the device. In some implementations once the secure communication is established the device acts like a proxy between the NFC chip of the reader device and the NFC server. Data may be provided to the device from the NFC server to be forwarded to the NFC chip. In some implementations the device may forward the data to the NFC chip of the reader device without storing or altering the data. For example if the server is providing the NFC chip of the reader device with a key the key may not be stored on the device after it is presented to the NFC chip of the reader device.

At step the device provides the data to the NFC chip of the reader device. Responsive to establishing the secure communication between the NFC chip and the NFC server the device can provide the data to the NFC reader. In some implementations by presenting the key to the NFC reader the device emulates a NFC medium to the NFC reader. The device may act as proxy to transmit additional data between the NFC chip of the reader device and the server for example enabling bidirectional communication between the NFC chip of the NFC reader and the NFC server.

Bidirectional communication between the NFC chip or the NFC reader and the NFC server can include the transmission of data from the NFC server to the NFC chip or the NFC reader and transmission of data from the NFC chip or the NFC reader to the NFC server. As an example of bidirectional communication a user may wish to use a mobile device to emulate a banking card which may store an indication of the user s bank balance. In this example the first leg of the bidirectional communication may include the user authenticating with the NFC server such that NFC data is provided to the mobile device. The provided NFC data enables the mobile device to emulate the user s banking card. The mobile device emulating the banking card may transfer to the ATM via the mobile phone s NFC aerials. In some implementations the transmission of additional data may require additional authentication by the user of the device to the NFC server.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to specific embodiments it should be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention described in this disclosure.

