---

title: Halogenated compounds for cancer imaging and treatment and methods for their use
abstract: 

or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, tautomer or stereoisomer thereof, wherein R, R, R, R, R, X, X, Xand Xare as defined herein, and wherein the compound comprises at least one F, Cl, Br, I or I moiety, are provided. Uses of such compounds for imaging diagnostics in cancer and therapeutics methods for treatment of subjects in need thereof, including prostate cancer as well as methods and intermediates for preparing such compounds are also provided.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09375496&OS=09375496&RS=09375496
owner: The University of British Columbia
number: 09375496
owner_city: 
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20140909
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 875 556 filed on Sep. 9 2013 and which is incorporated herein be reference in its entirety.

This invention was made in part with government support under Grant No. 2R01 CA105304 awarded by the National Cancer Institute. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

This invention generally relates to radiolabeled compounds and their use in methods for imaging the prostate gland. For example in certain embodiments the compounds are useful for imaging benign prostate diseases such as benign prostate hyperplasia. In other embodiments the compounds are useful for imaging cancerous prostate diseases such as prostate cancer tumors. In certain embodiments the invention relates to radioactive I compounds and their use as an imaging tool in prostate cancer and benign prostate diseases. The disclosed compounds find utility in any number of imaging applications including imaging of androgen receptor AR splice variants in prostate cancers including all stages and androgen dependent androgen sensitive and castration resistant prostate cancers also referred to as hormone refractory androgen independent androgen deprivation resistant androgen ablation resistant androgen depletion independent castration recurrent anti androgen recurrent .

Androgens mediate their effects through the androgen receptor AR . Androgens play a role in a wide range of developmental and physiological responses and are involved in male sexual differentiation maintenance of spermatogenesis and male gonadotropin regulation R. K. Ross G. A. Coetzee C. L. Pearce J. K. Reichardt P. Bretsky L. N. Kolonel B. E. Henderson E. Lander D. Altshuler G. Daley 35 355 361 1999 A. A. Thomson 121 187 195 2001 N. Tanji K. Aoki M. Yokoyama 47 1 7 2001 . Several lines of evidence show that androgens are associated with the development of prostate carcinogenesis. Firstly androgens induce prostatic carcinogenesis in rodent models R. L. Noble 37 1929 1933 1977 R. L. Noble 34 138 141 1977 and men receiving androgens in the form of anabolic steroids have a higher incidence of prostate cancer J. T. Roberts D. M. Essenhigh 2 742 1986 J. A. Jackson J. Waxman A. M. Spiekerman 149 2365 2366 1989 P. D. Guinan W. Sadoughi H. Alsheik R. J. Ablin D. Alrenga I. M. Bush 131 599 600 1976 . Secondly prostate cancer does not develop if humans or dogs are castrated before puberty J. D. Wilson C. Roehrborn 84 4324 4331 1999 G. Wilding 14 113 130 1992 . Castration of adult males causes involution of the prostate and apoptosis of prostatic epithelium while eliciting no effect on other male external genitalia E. M. Bruckheimer N. Kyprianou 301 153 162 2000 J. T. Isaacs 5 545 557 1984 . This dependency on androgens provides the underlying rationale for treating prostate cancer with chemical or surgical castration androgen ablation .

Androgens also play a role in female diseases such as polycystic ovary syndrome as well as cancers. One example is ovarian cancer where elevated levels of androgens are associated with an increased risk of developing ovarian cancer K. J. Helzlsouer A. J. Alberg G. B. Gordon C. Longcope T. L. Bush S. C. Hoffman G. W. Comstock 274 1926 1930 1995 R. J. Edmondson J. M. Monaghan B. R. Davies 86 879 885 2002 . The AR has been detected in a majority of ovarian cancers H. A. Risch 90 1774 1786 1998 B. R. Rao B. J. Slotman 12 14 26 1991 G. M. Clinton W. Hua 25 1 9 1997 whereas estrogen receptor alpha ERa and the progesterone receptor are detected in less than 50 of ovarian tumors.

The only effective treatment available for advanced prostate cancer is the withdrawal of androgens which are essential for the survival of prostate epithelial cells. Androgen ablation therapy causes a temporary reduction in tumor burden concomitant with a decrease in serum prostate specific antigen PSA . Unfortunately prostate cancer can eventually grow again in the absence of testicular androgens castration resistant disease Huber et al 1987 104 33 39 . Castration resistant prostate cancer is biochemically characterized before the onset of symptoms by a rising titre of serum PSA Miller et al 1992 147 956 961 . Once the disease becomes castration resistant most patients succumb to their disease within two years.

The AR has distinct functional domains that include the carboxy terminal ligand binding domain LBD a DNA binding domain DBD comprising two zinc finger motifs and an N terminus domain NTD that contains one or more transcriptional activation domains. Binding of androgen ligand to the LBD of the AR results in its activation such that the receptor can effectively bind to its specific DNA consensus site termed the androgen response element ARE on the promoter and enhancer regions of normally androgen regulated genes such as PSA to initiate transcription. The AR can be activated in the absence of androgen by stimulation of the cAMP dependent protein kinase PKA pathway with interleukin 6 IL 6 and by various growth factors Culig et al 1994 54 5474 5478 Nazareth et al 1996 271 19900 19907 Sadar 1999 274 7777 7783 Ueda et al 2002 A 277 7076 7085 and Ueda et al 2002 B 277 38087 38094 . The mechanism of ligand independent transformation of the AR has been shown to involve 1 increased nuclear AR protein suggesting nuclear translocation 2 increased AR ARE complex formation and 3 the AR NTD Sadar 1999 274 7777 7783 Ueda et al 2002 A 277 7076 7085 and Ueda et al 2002 B 277 38087 38094 . The AR may be activated in the absence of testicular androgens by alternative signal transduction pathways in castration resistant disease which is consistent with the finding that nuclear AR protein is present in secondary prostate cancer tumors Kim et al 2002 160 219 226 and van der Kwast et al 1991 48 189 193 .

Available inhibitors of the AR include nonsteroidal antiandrogens such as bicalutamide Casodex nilutamide flutamide enzulutamide and investigational drug ARN 509 and steroidal antiandrogens such as cyproterone acetate. These antiandrogens target the LBD of the AR and predominantly fail presumably due to poor affinity and mutations that lead to activation of the AR by these same antiandrogens Taplin M. E. Bubley G. J. Kom Y. J. Small E. J. Uptonm M. Rajeshkumarm B. Balkm S. P. 59 2511 2515 1999 . These antiandrogens would also have no effect on the recently discovered AR splice variants that lack the ligand binding domain LBD to result in a constitutively active receptor which promotes progression of castration recurrent prostate cancer Dehm S M Schmidt L J Heemers H V Vessella R L Tindall D J. 68 5469 77 2008 Guo Z Yang X Sun F Jiang R Linn D E Chen H Chen H Kong X Melamed J Tepper C G Kung H J Brodie A M Edwards J Qiu Y. 69 2305 13 2009 Hu et al 2009 Cancer Res. 69 16 22 Sun et al 2010 J Clin Invest. 2010 120 2715 30 .

Conventional therapy has concentrated on androgen dependent activation of the AR through its C terminal domain. Studies developing antagonists to the AR have concentrated on the C terminus and specifically 1 the allosteric pocket and AF 2 activity Est banez Perpi et al 2007 104 16074 16079 2 in silico drug repurposing procedure for identification of nonsteroidal antagonists Bisson et al 2007 104 11927 11932 and coactivator or corepressor interactions Chang et al 2005 19 2478 2490 Hur et al 2004 2 E274 Est banez Perpi et al 2005 280 8060 8068 He et al 2004 16 425 438 .

The AR NTD is also a target for drug development e.g. WO 2000 001813 since the NTD contains Activation Function 1 AF 1 which is the essential region required for AR transcriptional activity Jenster et al 1991. Mol Endocrinol. 5 1396 404 . The AR NTD importantly plays a role in activation of the AR in the absence of androgens Sadar M. D. 1999 274 7777 7783 Sadar M D et al 1999 6 487 502 Ueda et al 2002 277 7076 7085 Ueda 2002 277 38087 38094 Blaszczyk et al 2004 10 1860 9 Dehm et al 2006 28 27882 93 Gregory et al 2004 279 7119 30 . The AR NTD is important in hormonal progression of prostate cancer as shown by application of decoy molecules Quayle et al 2007 104 1331 1336 .

While the crystal structure has been resolved for the AR C terminus LBD this has not been the case for the NTD due to its high flexibility and intrinsic disorder in solution Reid et al 2002 277 20079 20086 thereby hampering virtual docking drug discovery approaches. Compounds that modulate AR include the bis phenol compounds disclosed in published PCT Nos WO 2010 000066 WO 2011 082487 WO 2011 082488 WO 2012 145330 WO 2012 139039 WO 2012 145328 WO 2013 028572 and WO 2013 028791 which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties to the British Columbia Cancer Agency Branch and The University of British Columbia.

In addition to compounds which modulate AR compounds and methods for imaging the prostate are useful research diagnostic and prognostic tools. Such compounds are useful in many applications including imaging of benign and or malignant prostate cells and tissue. In this regard positron emission tomography PET is an often used imaging technique for non invasive identification of pathological state and tumors. In PET imaging the distribution of a radioisotope e.g. F in the body can be determined. Thus incorporating F into compounds which concentrate in tumor sites see e.g. WO 2013 028791 offers potential for diagnosis staging and monitoring treatment of cancers. However improved methods for imaging are needed for example methods which employ I and single photon emission coupled tomography SPECT techniques have potential to improve methods for imaging AR rich tissues such as the benign prostate and in particular prostate cancers and AR splice variants in castrate recurrent prostate cancers.

While significant advances have been made in this field there remains a need for improved imaging agents In particular methods and compounds suitable for imaging benign and malignant prostate tissues and cells are needed. The present invention fulfills these needs and provides other related advantages.

Some embodiments of the compounds described herein may be used for diagnostic purposes to investigate diseases of the prostate including cancer. In particular embodiments the compounds are useful for imaging diagnostics in cancer. In some embodiments such imaging allows for the detection and or location of cancer sites e.g. tumor sites . Furthermore these compounds may be used individually or as part of a kit for such purposes.

The present disclosure is based in part on the surprising discovery that the compounds described herein may be used to modulate AR activity either in vivo or in vitro for both research and therapeutic uses. Accordingly embodiments of the compounds are useful for imaging the prostate. The imaging may be for any number of diagnostic purposes. For example in certain embodiments the compounds are useful for imaging benign prostate cancer diseases. In other embodiments the compounds find utility for imaging of certain cancers including prostate cancer since certain embodiments of the compounds localize in prostate tumor sites. Other imaging agents are androgen mimics however in one embodiment the compounds are useful for imaging AR splice variants or any AR species ie. those mutated in other domains or regions . The AR may be mammalian. For example the AR may be human. The prostate cancer may be castration resistant prostate cancer. The prostate cancer may be androgen dependent prostate cancer.

In other embodiments pharmaceutical compositions comprising a compound of structure I are provided. Methods employing such pharmaceutical compositions for imaging cancer are also provided. Methods for modulating AR activity employing the present compounds and pharmaceutical compositions are also provided.

These and other aspects of the invention will be apparent upon reference to the following detailed description. To this end various references are set forth herein which describe in more detail certain background information procedures compounds and or compositions and are each hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

In the following description certain specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments. However one skilled in the art will understand that the invention may be practiced without these details. In other instances well known structures have not been shown or described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring descriptions of the embodiments. Unless the context requires otherwise throughout the specification and claims which follow the word comprise and variations thereof such as comprises and comprising are to be construed in an open inclusive sense that is as including but not limited to. Further headings provided herein are for convenience only and do not interpret the scope or meaning of the claimed invention.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus the appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. Also as used in this specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the content clearly dictates otherwise. It should also be noted that the term or is generally employed in its sense including and or unless the content clearly dictates otherwise.

 Alkyl refers to a straight or branched hydrocarbon chain radical which is saturated or unsaturated i.e. contains one or more double and or triple bonds having from one to twelve carbon atoms and which is attached to the rest of the molecule by a single bond. Alkyls comprising any number of carbon atoms from 1 to 12 are included. An alkyl comprising up to 12 carbon atoms is a C Calkyl an alkyl comprising up to 10 carbon atoms is a C Calkyl an alkyl comprising up to 6 carbon atoms is a C Calkyl and an alkyl comprising up to 5 carbon atoms is a C Calkyl. A C Calkyl includes Calkyls Calkyls Calkyls Calkyls and Calkyl i.e. methyl and includes for example and without limitation saturated C Calkyl C Calkenyl and C Calkynyl. Non limiting examples of saturated C Calkyl include methyl ethyl n propyl i propyl sec propyl n butyl i butyl sec butyl t butyl and n pentyl. Non limiting examples of C Calkenyl include vinyl allyl isopropenyl 1 propene 2 yl 1 butene 1 yl 1 butene 2 yl 1 butene 3 yl 2 butene 1 yl 2 butene 2 yl penteneyl and the like. Non limiting examples of C Calkynyl include ethynyl propynyl butynyl pentynyl and the like. A C Calkyl includes all moieties described above for C Calkyls but also includes Calkyls. A C Calkyl includes all moieties described above for C Calkyls and C Calkyls but also includes C C Cand Calkyls. Similarily a C Calkyl includes all the foregoing moieties but also includes Cand Calkyls. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an alkyl group may be optionally substituted. Alkylene or alkylene chain refers to a straight or branched divalent hydrocarbon chain linking the rest of the molecule to a radical group consisting solely of carbon and hydrogen which is saturated or unsaturated i.e. contains one or more double and or triple bonds and having from one to twelve carbon atoms e.g. methylene ethylene propylene n butylene ethenylene propenylene n butenylene propynylene n butynylene and the like. The alkylene chain is attached to the rest of the molecule through a single or double bond and to the radical group through a single or double bond. The points of attachment of the alkylene chain to the rest of the molecule and to the radical group can be through one carbon or any two carbons within the chain. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an alkylene chain may be optionally substituted.

 Alkoxy refers to a radical of the formula ORwhere Ris an alkyl radical as defined above containing one to twelve carbon atoms. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an alkoxy group may be optionally substituted.

 Alkylamino refers to a radical of the formula NHRor NRRwhere each Ris independently an alkyl radical as defined above containing one to twelve carbon atoms. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an alkylamino group may be optionally substituted.

 Alkylcarbonyl refers to the C O Ra moiety wherein Ra is an alkyl radical as defined above. A non limiting example of an alkyl carbonyl is the methyl carbonyl acetal moiety. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an alkyl carbonyl group may be optionally substituted.

 Aryl refers to a hydrocarbon ring system radical comprising hydrogen 6 to 18 carbon atoms and at least one aromatic ring. For purposes of this invention the aryl radical may be a monocyclic bicyclic tricyclic or tetracyclic ring system which may include fused or bridged ring systems. Aryl radicals include but are not limited to aryl radicals derived from aceanthrylene acenaphthylene acephenanthrylene anthracene azulene benzene chrysene fluoranthene fluorene as indacene s indacene indane indene naphthalene phenalene phenanthrene pleiadene pyrene and triphenylene. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification the term aryl is meant to include aryl radicals that are optionally substituted.

 Aralkyl refers to a radical of the formula R Rwhere Ris an alkylene chain as defined above and Ris one or more aryl radicals as defined above for example benzyl diphenylmethyl and the like. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an aralkyl group may be optionally substituted.

 Carbocyclyl or carbocyclic ring refers to a rings structure wherein the the atoms which form the ring are each carbon. Carbocyclic rings may comprise from 3 to 18 carbon atoms in the ring. Carbocyclic rings include aryls and cycloalkyls as defined herein. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification a carbocyclyl group may be optionally substituted.

 Cycloalkyl refers to a stable non aromatic monocyclic or polycyclic hydrocarbon radical consisting solely of carbon and hydrogen atoms which may include fused or bridged ring systems having from three to fifteen carbon atoms preferably having from three to ten carbon atoms and which is saturated or unsaturated and attached to the rest of the molecule by a single bond. Monocyclic radicals include for example cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl and cyclooctyl. Polycyclic radicals include for example adamantyl norbornyl decalinyl 7 7 dimethyl bicyclo 2.2.1 heptanyl and the like. Unless otherwise stated specifically in the specification a cycloalkyl group may be optionally substituted.

 Cycloalkylalkyl refers to a radical of the formula RRwhere Ris an alkylene chain as defined above and Ris a cycloalkyl radical as defined above. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification a cycloalkylalkyl group may be optionally substituted.

 Haloalkyl refers to an alkyl radical as defined above that is substituted by one or more halo radicals as defined above e.g. trifluoromethyl difluoromethyl trichloromethyl 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl 1 2 difluoroethyl 3 bromo 2 fluoropropyl 1 2 dibromoethyl and the like. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification a haloalkyl group may be optionally substituted.

 Heterocyclyl or heterocyclic ring refers to a stable 3 to 18 membered non aromatic ring radical which consists of two to twelve carbon atoms and from one to six heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. Heterocyclycl or heterocyclic rings include heteroaryls as defined below. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification the heterocyclyl radical may be a monocyclic bicyclic tricyclic or tetracyclic ring system which may include fused or bridged ring systems and the nitrogen carbon or sulfur atoms in the heterocyclyl radical may be optionally oxidized the nitrogen atom may be optionally quaternized and the heterocyclyl radical may be partially or fully saturated. Examples of such heterocyclyl radicals include but are not limited to dioxolanyl thienyl 1 3 dithianyl decahydroisoquinolyl imidazolinyl imidazolidinyl isothiazolidinyl isoxazolidinyl morpholinyl octahydroindolyl octahydroisoindolyl 2 oxopiperazinyl 2 oxopiperidinyl 2 oxopyrrolidinyl oxazolidinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl 4 piperidonyl pyrrolidinyl pyrazolidinyl quinuclidinyl thiazolidinyl tetrahydrofuryl trithianyl tetrahydropyranyl thiomorpholinyl thiamorpholinyl 1 oxo thiomorpholinyl and 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholinyl. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification a heterocyclyl group may be optionally substituted.

 N heterocyclyl refers to a heterocyclyl radical as defined above containing at least one nitrogen and where the point of attachment of the heterocyclyl radical to the rest of the molecule is through a nitrogen atom in the heterocyclyl radical. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification a N heterocyclyl group may be optionally substituted.

 Heterocyclylalkyl refers to a radical of the formula RR where Ris an alkylene chain as defined above and Ris a heterocyclyl radical as defined above and if the heterocyclyl is a nitrogen containing heterocyclyl the heterocyclyl may be attached to the alkyl radical at the nitrogen atom. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification a heterocyclylalkyl group may be optionally substituted.

 Heteroaryl refers to a 5 to 14 membered ring system radical comprising hydrogen atoms one to thirteen carbon atoms one to six heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of nitrogen oxygen and sulfur and at least one aromatic ring. For purposes of this invention the heteroaryl radical may be a monocyclic bicyclic tricyclic or tetracyclic ring system which may include fused or bridged ring systems and the nitrogen carbon or sulfur atoms in the heteroaryl radical may be optionally oxidized the nitrogen atom may be optionally quaternized. Examples include but are not limited to azepinyl acridinyl benzimidazolyl benzothiazolyl benzindolyl benzodioxolyl benzofuranyl benzooxazolyl benzothiazolyl benzothiadiazolyl benzo b 1 4 dioxepinyl 1 4 benzodioxanyl benzonaphthofuranyl benzoxazolyl benzodioxolyl benzodioxinyl benzopyranyl benzopyranonyl benzofuranyl benzofuranonyl benzothienyl benzothiophenyl benzotriazolyl benzo 4 6 imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl carbazolyl cinnolinyl dibenzofuranyl dibenzothiophenyl furanyl furanonyl isothiazolyl imidazolyl indazolyl indolyl indazolyl isoindolyl indolinyl isoindolinyl isoquinolyl indolizinyl isoxazolyl naphthyridinyl oxadiazolyl 2 oxoazepinyl oxazolyl oxiranyl 1 oxidopyridinyl 1 oxidopyrimidinyl 1 oxidopyrazinyl 1 oxidopyridazinyl 1 phenyl 1H pyrrolyl phenazinyl phenothiazinyl phenoxazinyl phthalazinyl pteridinyl purinyl pyrrolyl pyrazolyl pyridinyl pyrazinyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl quinolinyl quinuclidinyl isoquinolinyl tetrahydroquinolinyl thiazolyl thiadiazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl triazinyl and thiophenyl i.e. thienyl . Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification a heteroaryl group may be optionally substituted.

 N heteroaryl refers to a heteroaryl radical as defined above containing at least one nitrogen and where the point of attachment of the heteroaryl radical to the rest of the molecule is through a nitrogen atom in the heteroaryl radical. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an N heteroaryl group may be optionally substituted.

 Heteroarylalkyl refers to a radical of the formula RRwhere Ris an alkylene chain as defined above and Ris a heteroaryl radical as defined above. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification a heteroarylalkyl group may be optionally substituted.

 I refers to the radioactive isotope of iodine having atomic mass 123. The compounds of structure I comprise at least one I moiety. Throughout the present application where structures depict a I moiety at a certain position it is meant that the I moiety at this position is enriched for I. In other words the compounds contain more than the natural abundance of I at the indicated position s . It is not required that the compounds comprise 100 I at the indicated positions provided I is present in more than the natural abundance. Typically the I isotope is enriched to greater than 50 greater than 60 greater than 70 greater than 80 or greater than 90 relative to I.

 Thioalkyl refers to a radical of the formula SRwhere Ris an alkyl radical as defined above containing one to twelve carbon atoms. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification a thioalkyl group may be optionally substituted.

The term substituted used herein means any of the above groups i.e. alkyl alkylene alkoxy alkylamino alkylcarbonyl thioalkyl aryl aralkyl carbocyclyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl haloalkyl heterocyclyl N heterocyclyl heterocyclylalkyl heteroaryl N heteroaryl and or heteroarylalkyl wherein at least one hydrogen atom is replaced by a bond to a non hydrogen atoms such as but not limited to a halogen atom such as F Cl Br and I an oxygen atom in groups such as hydroxyl groups alkoxy groups and ester groups a sulfur atom in groups such as thiol groups thioalkyl groups sulfone groups sulfonyl groups and sulfoxide groups a nitrogen atom in groups such as amines amides alkylamines dialkylamines arylamines alkylarylamines diarylamines N oxides imides and enamines a silicon atom in groups such as trialkylsilyl groups dialkylarylsilyl groups alkyldiarylsilyl groups and triarylsilyl groups and other heteroatoms in various other groups. Substituted also means any of the above groups in which one or more hydrogen atoms are replaced by a higher order bond e.g. a double or triple bond to a heteroatom such as oxygen in oxo carbonyl carboxyl and ester groups and nitrogen in groups such as imines oximes hydrazones and nitriles. For example substituted includes any of the above groups in which one or more hydrogen atoms are replaced with NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR NRSOR OC O N RR OR SR SOR SOR OSOR SOOR NSOR and SONRR. Substituted also means any of the above groups in which one or more hydrogen atoms are replaced with C O R C O OR C O NRR CHSOR CHSONRR. In the foregoing Rand Rare the same or different and independently hydrogen alkyl alkoxy alkylamino thioalkyl aryl aralkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl haloalkyl heterocyclyl N heterocyclyl heterocyclylalkyl heteroaryl N heteroaryl and or heteroarylalkyl. Substituted further means any of the above groups in which one or more hydrogen atoms are replaced by a bond to an amino cyano hydroxyl imino nitro oxo thioxo halo alkyl alkoxy alkylamino thioalkyl aryl aralkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl haloalkyl heterocyclyl N heterocyclyl heterocyclylalkyl heteroaryl N heteroaryl and or heteroarylalkyl group. In addition each of the foregoing substituents may also be optionally substituted with one or more of the above substituents.

As used herein the symbol hereinafter may be referred to as a point of attachment bond denotes a bond that is a point of attachment between two chemical entities one of which is depicted as being attached to the point of attachment bond and the other of which is not depicted as being attached to the point of attachment bond. For example XY indicates that the chemical entity XY is bonded to another chemical entity via the point of attachment bond. Furthermore the specific point of attachment to the non depicted chemical entity may be specified by inference. For example the compound CH R wherein Ris H or XY infers that when Ris XY the point of attachment bond is the same bond as the bond by which Ris depicted as being bonded to CH.

 Fused refers to any ring structure described herein which is fused to an existing ring structure in the compounds of the invention. When the fused ring is a heterocyclyl ring or a heteroaryl ring any carbon atom on the existing ring structure which becomes part of the fused heterocyclyl ring or the fused heteroaryl ring may be replaced with a nitrogen atom.

The invention disclosed herein is also meant to encompass the in vivo metabolic products of the disclosed compounds. Such products may result from for example the oxidation reduction hydrolysis amidation esterification and the like of the administered compound primarily due to enzymatic processes. Accordingly the invention includes compounds produced by a process comprising administering a compound of this invention to a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof. Such products are typically identified by administering a radiolabelled compound of the invention in a detectable dose to an animal such as rat mouse guinea pig monkey or to human allowing sufficient time for metabolism to occur and isolating its conversion products from the urine blood or other biological samples.

 Stable compound and stable structure are meant to indicate a compound that is sufficiently robust to survive isolation to a useful degree of purity from a reaction mixture and formulation into an efficacious therapeutic agent.

 Mammal includes humans and both domestic animals such as laboratory animals and household pets e.g. cats dogs swine cattle sheep goats horses rabbits and non domestic animals such as wildlife and the like.

 Optional or optionally means that the subsequently described event of circumstances may or may not occur and that the description includes instances where said event or circumstance occurs and instances in which it does not. For example optionally substituted aryl means that the aryl radical may or may not be substituted and that the description includes both substituted aryl radicals and aryl radicals having no substitution.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient includes without limitation any adjuvant carrier excipient glidant sweetening agent diluent preservative dye colorant flavor enhancer surfactant wetting agent dispersing agent suspending agent stabilizer isotonic agent solvent or emulsifier which has been approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration as being acceptable for use in humans or domestic animals.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt refers to those salts which retain the biological effectiveness and properties of the free bases which are not biologically or otherwise undesirable and which are formed with inorganic acids such as but are not limited to hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid phosphoric acid and the like and organic acids such as but not limited to acetic acid 2 2 dichloroacetic acid adipic acid alginic acid ascorbic acid aspartic acid benzenesulfonic acid benzoic acid 4 acetamidobenzoic acid camphoric acid camphor 10 sulfonic acid capric acid caproic acid caprylic acid carbonic acid cinnamic acid citric acid cyclamic acid dodecylsulfuric acid ethane 1 2 disulfonic acid ethanesulfonic acid 2 hydroxyethanesulfonic acid formic acid fumaric acid galactaric acid gentisic acid glucoheptonic acid gluconic acid glucuronic acid glutamic acid glutaric acid 2 oxo glutaric acid glycerophosphoric acid glycolic acid hippuric acid isobutyric acid lactic acid lactobionic acid lauric acid maleic acid malic acid malonic acid mandelic acid methanesulfonic acid mucic acid naphthalene 1 5 disulfonic acid naphthalene 2 sulfonic acid 1 hydroxy 2 naphthoic acid nicotinic acid oleic acid orotic acid oxalic acid palmitic acid pamoic acid propionic acid pyroglutamic acid pyruvic acid salicylic acid 4 aminosalicylic acid sebacic acid stearic acid succinic acid tartaric acid thiocyanic acid p toluenesulfonic acid trifluoroacetic acid undecylenic acid and the like.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salt refers to those salts which retain the biological effectiveness and properties of the free acids which are not biologically or otherwise undesirable. These salts are prepared from addition of an inorganic base or an organic base to the free acid. Salts derived from inorganic bases include but are not limited to the sodium potassium lithium ammonium calcium magnesium iron zinc copper manganese aluminum salts and the like. Preferred inorganic salts are the ammonium sodium potassium calcium and magnesium salts. Salts derived from organic bases include but are not limited to salts of primary secondary and tertiary amines substituted amines including naturally occurring substituted amines cyclic amines and basic ion exchange resins such as ammonia isopropylamine trimethylamine diethylamine triethylamine tripropylamine diethanolamine ethanolamine deanol 2 dimethylaminoethanol 2 diethylaminoethanol dicyclohexylamine lysine arginine histidine caffeine procaine hydrabamine choline betaine benethamine benzathine ethylenediamine glucosamine methylglucamine theobromine triethanolamine tromethamine purines piperazine piperidine N ethylpiperidine polyamine resins and the like. Particularly preferred organic bases are isopropylamine diethylamine ethanolamine trimethylamine dicyclohexylamine choline and caffeine.

Often crystallizations produce a solvate of the compound of the invention. As used herein the term solvate refers to an aggregate that comprises one or more molecules of a compound of the invention with one or more molecules of solvent. The solvent may be water in which case the solvate may be a hydrate. Alternatively the solvent may be an organic solvent. Thus the compounds of the present invention may exist as a hydrate including a monohydrate dihydrate hemihydrate sesquihydrate trihydrate tetrahydrate and the like as well as the corresponding solvated forms. The compound of the invention may be true solvates while in other cases the compound of the invention may merely retain adventitious water or be a mixture of water plus some adventitious solvent.

A pharmaceutical composition refers to a formulation of a compound of the invention and a medium generally accepted in the art for the delivery of the biologically active compound to mammals e.g. humans. Such a medium includes all pharmaceutically acceptable carriers diluents or excipients therefor.

The compounds of the invention or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts may contain one or more asymmetric centers and may thus give rise to enantiomers diastereomers and other stereoisomeric forms that may be defined in terms of absolute stereochemistry as R or S or as D or L for amino acids. The present invention is meant to include all such possible isomers as well as their racemic and optically pure forms whether or not they are specifically depicted herein. Optically active and R and S or D and L isomers may be prepared using chiral synthons or chiral reagents or resolved using conventional techniques for example chromatography and fractional crystallization. Conventional techniques for the preparation isolation of individual enantiomers include chiral synthesis from a suitable optically pure precursor or resolution of the racemate or the racemate of a salt or derivative using for example chiral high pressure liquid chromatography HPLC . When the compounds described herein contain olefinic double bonds or other centres of geometric asymmetry and unless specified otherwise it is intended that the compounds include both E and Z geometric isomers. Likewise all tautomeric forms are also intended to be included.

A stereoisomer refers to a compound made up of the same atoms bonded by the same bonds but having different three dimensional structures which are not interchangeable. The present invention contemplates various stereoisomers and mixtures thereof and includes enantiomers which refers to two stereoisomers whose molecules are nonsuperimposeable mirror images of one another.

A tautomer refers to a proton shift from one atom of a molecule to another atom of the same molecule. The present invention includes tautomers of any said compounds.

The chemical naming protocol and structure diagrams used herein are a modified form of the I.U.P.A.C. nomenclature system using the ACD Name Version 9.07 software program and or ChemDraw Ultra Version 11.0.1 software naming program CambridgeSoft . For complex chemical names employed herein a substituent group is named before the group to which it attaches. For example cyclopropylethyl comprises an ethyl backbone with cyclopropyl substituent. Except as described below all bonds are identified in the chemical structure diagrams herein except for some carbon atoms which are assumed to be bonded to sufficient hydrogen atoms to complete the valency.

As noted above the presently disclosed compounds find utility in a number of medical imaging application including imaging of the prostate. Many currently available imaging agents tend to accumulate in the bladder which decreases their effectiveness as imaging tools specifically for the prostate. While not wishing to be bound by theory the present applicants believe the disclosed compounds are unexpectedly effective for imaging of the prostate due to their ability to accumulate in the prostate rather than the bladder allowing the prostate gland to be seen. Accordingly the compounds may be used in methods for imaging the prostate for example to image benign prostate diseases. In other embodiments the compounds may be used in methods to image cancerous prostate diseases such as tumors of the prostate.

Androgen ablation therapy causes a temporary reduction in prostate cancer tumor burden but the malignancy will begin to grow again in the absence of testicular androgens to form castrate resistant prostate cancer CRPC . A rising titer of serum prostate specific antigen PSA after androgen ablation therapy indicates biochemical failure the emergence of CRPC and re initiation of an androgen receptor AR transcription program. Most patients succumb to CRPC within two years of biochemical failure.

AR is a transcription factor and a validated target for prostate cancer therapy. Current therapies include androgen ablation and administration of antiandrogens. Most CRPC is suspected to be AR dependent. AR has distinct functional domains that include the C terminus ligand binding domain LBD a DNA binding domain DBD and an amino terminal domain NTD . AR NTD contains the activation function 1 AF 1 that contributes most of the activity to the AR. Recently splice variants of the AR that lack the LBD have been reported in prostate cancer cell lines VCaP and 22Rv1 and in CRPC tissues. To date more than 20 splice variants of AR have been detected. Splice variants V7 and V567es are clinically relevant with levels of expression correlated to poor survival and CRPC. AR V567es is solely expressed in 20 of metastases. Abiraterone resistance is associated with expression of AR splice variants. Enzalutamide also increases levels of expression of these constitutively active AR splice variants. These splice variants lack LBD and thereby would not be inhibited by current therapies that target the AR LBD such as antiandrogens or androgen ablation therapy. A single patient with advanced prostate cancer can have many lesions throughout the body and skeleton and each tumor can have differing levels of expression of AR.

Biopsy of metastatic tumors in a patient to determine AR species is not widely accessible nor feasible to sample tumours in a patient that may have multiple metastases. Thus it is essential to develop approaches to detect the expression of all AR species for the molecular classification of tumors based on the level and extent of expression of AR splice variants or other AR species that cannot be detected using an imaging agent that interacts with the LBD to identify patients with potentially aggressive disease and poor prognosis or to identify patients that will not respond to hormone therapies that target the AR LBD. Accordingly certain embodiments of the present invention provide a AR NTD targeted molecular imaging probe e.g. compound of formula I which can be used to monitor response to therapy and provide insight into the role of AR in resistance mechanisms.

One current approach to image AR in prostate cancer uses positron emission tomography PET with 16 F fluoro 5 dihydrotestosterone F FDHT that binds to AR LBD. Unfortunately this imaging agent cannot detect splice variants lacking LBD. In some embodiments the invention employs sequential imaging with F FDHT to detect full length AR and gamma radiation emitting probes to specifically detect the AR NTD which would be the sum of both full length AR and variant AR. In other embodiments the invention employs sequential imaging with two different PET imaging agents to detects only full length AR and another to specifically detect the AR NTD which would be the sum of both full length AR and variant AR. Together these data reveal patients with tumors that express variant AR NTD of variant plus full length AR detected with NTD isotope minus full length AR detected with F FDHT . By using sequential imaging a discordant distribution or discordant level of uptake between F FDHT and a radiolabeled compound of this invention i.e. compound of structure I indicates the presence of overexpression of splice variants lacking the LBD.

Accordingly certain embodiments of the present invention are directed to compounds that bind to the AR NTD and are useful for imaging of tumors with splice variants using SPECT and or methods of modulating AR NTD activity. Other embodiments are directed to compound and methods useful for imaging and or treating benign prostate conditions or diseases. In one embodiment the present disclosure provides a compound having a structure of Formula I 

Rand Rare each independently H or C Calkyl or Rand R together with the carbon atom to which they are bound are taken together to form a carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring 

X X Xand Xare each independently H F Cl Br I or I wherein at least one of X X Xor Xis F Cl Br I or I.

In various embodiments different stereoisomers of the compound of structure I are provided for example in some embodiments the compound has one of the following structures Ia Ib Ic or Id 

The compounds contain at least one F Cl. Br I or I substitution for use in the imaging and treatment methods described herein. In some embodiments the compounds comprise one F Cl. Br I or I substitution for example in certain other embodiments three of X X Xand Xare H and the remaining X X Xor Xis F Cl. Br I or I. In some embodiments the compounds comprise two F Cl. Br I or I substitutions i.e. two of X X Xand Xare H and the other two of X X Xor Xare F Cl. Br I or I . In other embodiments the compounds comprise three F Cl. Br I or I substitutions i.e. one of X X Xand Xis H and the remaining X X Xor Xis F Cl. Br I or I and in other embodiments the compounds comprise four F Cl Br I or I substitutions i.e. each of X X Xand Xare F Cl. Br I or I .

Favorable imaging and or AR NTD modulating results are obtained by substitution with F Cl. Br I or I at any of the X positions. In some of the foregoing embodiments Xis I. In other of the Xis I.

In various embodiments of any of the foregoing at least one of Ror Ris H. For example in some embodiments Rand Rare each H.

In other embodiments of the foregoing at least one of Ror Ris C Calkyl. For example in some embodiments Rand Rare each C Calkyl. In some of these embodiments C Calkyl is C Csaturated alky such as methyl.

In other embodiments Each Rmay independently be C Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be C Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be C Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be C Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be methyl. Each Rmay independently be Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be Calkyl.

In other embodiments Each Rmay independently be C Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be C Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be C Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be C Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be methyl. Each Rmay independently be Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be Calkyl.

In certain of the foregoing embodiments at least one of R Ror Ris H. In certain embodiments two of R Rand Rare H. In other embodiments R Rand Rare each H.

In still other embodiments of the foregoing compounds of structure I at least one of R Ror Ris C Calkyl. For example in some embodiments two of R Rand Rare C Calkyl. In other embodiments R Rand Rare each C Calkyl. In certain of the foregoing embodiments C Calkyl is saturated C Calkyl. For example in some embodiments the saturated C Calkyl is methyl isopropyl or n butyl. In some different embodiments the C Calkyl is unsaturated C Calkyl for example propargyl.

In other embodiments Each Rmay independently be C Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be C Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be C Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be C Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be methyl. Each Rmay independently be Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be Calkyl.

In other embodiments Each Rmay independently be C Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be C Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be C Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be C Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be methyl. Each Rmay independently be Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be Calkyl.

In other embodiments Each Rmay independently be C Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be C Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be C Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be C Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be methyl. Each Rmay independently be Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be Calkyl. Each Rmay independently be Calkyl.

In still other embodiments of some of the foregoing embodiments of the compound of structure I at least one of R Ror Ris C Calkylcarbonyl. In some of these embodiments two of R Rand Rare C Calkylcarbonyl. In other of these embodiments R Rand Rare each C Calkylcarbonyl. In some more specific embodiments the C Calkylcarbonyl is methyl carbonyl acetal .

In other embodiments Each Rmay independently be C Calkylcarbonyl. Each Rmay independently be C Calkylcarbonyl. Each Rmay independently be C Calkylcarbonyl. Each Rmay independently be C Calkylcarbonyl. Each Rmay independently be methylcarbonyl. Each Rmay independently be Calkylcarbonyl. Each Rmay independently be Calkylcarbonyl. Each Rmay independently be Calkylcarbonyl. Each Rmay independently be Calkylcarbonyl.

In other embodiments Each Rmay independently be C Calkylcarbonyl. Each Rmay independently be C Calkylcarbonyl. Each Rmay independently be C Calkylcarbonyl. Each Rmay independently be C Calkylcarbonyl. Each Rmay independently be methylcarbonyl. Each Rmay independently be Calkylcarbonyl. Each Rmay independently be Calkylcarbonyl. Each Rmay independently be Calkylcarbonyl. Each Rmay independently be Calkylcarbonyl.

In other embodiments Each Rmay independently be C Calkylcarbonyl. Each Rmay independently be C Calkylcarbonyl. Each Rmay independently be C Calkylcarbonyl. Each Rmay independently be C Calkylcarbonyl. Each Rmay independently be methylcarbonyl. Each Rmay independently be Calkylcarbonyl. Each Rmay independently be Calkylcarbonyl. Each Rmay independently be Calkylcarbonyl. Each Rmay independently be Calkylcarbonyl.

In some more specific embodiments of the compound of structure I the compound has one of the following structures from Table 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof 

In some embodiments compounds of structure I which result in unstable structures and or unsatisfied valences are not included within the scope of the invention.

In another embodiment the present disclosure provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising any of the foregoing compounds of structure I and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

Compounds as described herein may be in the free form or in the form of a salt thereof. In some embodiments compounds as described herein may be in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt which are known in the art Berge et al. 1977 66 1 . Pharmaceutically acceptable salt as used herein includes for example salts that have the desired pharmacological activity of the parent compound salts which retain the biological effectiveness and or properties of the parent compound and which are not biologically and or otherwise undesirable . Compounds as described herein having one or more functional groups capable of forming a salt may be for example formed as a pharmaceutically acceptable salt. Compounds containing one or more basic functional groups may be capable of forming a pharmaceutically acceptable salt with for example a pharmaceutically acceptable organic or inorganic acid. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts may be derived from for example and without limitation acetic acid adipic acid alginic acid aspartic acid ascorbic acid benzoic acid benzenesulfonic acid butyric acid cinnamic acid citric acid camphoric acid camphorsulfonic acid cyclopentanepropionic acid diethylacetic acid digluconic acid dodecylsulfonic acid ethanesulfonic acid formic acid fumaric acid glucoheptanoic acid gluconic acid glycerophosphoric acid glycolic acid hemisulfonic acid heptanoic acid hexanoic acid hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid hydriodic acid 2 hydroxyethanesulfonic acid isonicotinic acid lactic acid malic acid maleic acid malonic acid mandelic acid methanesulfonic acid 2 napthalenesulfonic acid naphthalenedisulphonic acid p toluenesulfonic acid nicotinic acid nitric acid oxalic acid pamoic acid pectinic acid 3 phenylpropionic acid phosphoric acid picric acid pimelic acid pivalic acid propionic acid pyruvic acid salicylic acid succinic acid sulfuric acid sulfamic acid tartaric acid thiocyanic acid or undecanoic acid. Compounds containing one or more acidic functional groups may be capable of forming pharmaceutically acceptable salts with a pharmaceutically acceptable base for example and without limitation inorganic bases based on alkaline metals or alkaline earth metals or organic bases such as primary amine compounds secondary amine compounds tertiary amine compounds quaternary amine compounds substituted amines naturally occurring substituted amines cyclic amines or basic ion exchange resins. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts may be derived from for example and without limitation a hydroxide carbonate or bicarbonate of a pharmaceutically acceptable metal cation such as ammonium sodium potassium lithium calcium magnesium iron zinc copper manganese or aluminum ammonia benzathine meglumine methylamine dimethylamine trimethylamine ethylamine diethylamine triethylamine isopropylamine tripropylamine tributylamine ethanolamine diethanolamine 2 dimethylaminoethanol 2 diethylaminoethanol dicyclohexylamine lysine arginine histidine caffeine hydrabamine choline betaine ethylenediamine glucosamine glucamine methylglucamine theobromine purines piperazine piperidine procaine N ethylpiperidine theobromine tetramethylammonium compounds tetraethylammonium compounds pyridine N N dimethylaniline N methylpiperidine morpholine N methylmorpholine N ethylmorpholine dicyclohexylamine dibenzylamine N N dibenzylphenethylamine 1 ephenamine N N dibenzylethylenediamine or polyamine resins. In some embodiments compounds as described herein may contain both acidic and basic groups and may be in the form of inner salts or zwitterions for example and without limitation betaines. Salts as described herein may be prepared by conventional processes known to a person skilled in the art for example and without limitation by reacting the free form with an organic acid or inorganic acid or base or by anion exchange or cation exchange from other salts. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that preparation of salts may occur in situ during isolation and purification of the compounds or preparation of salts may occur by separately reacting an isolated and purified compound.

In some embodiments compounds and all different forms thereof e.g. free forms salts polymorphs isomeric forms as described herein may be in the solvent addition form for example solvates. Solvates contain either stoichiometric or non stoichiometric amounts of a solvent in physical association the compound or salt thereof. The solvent may be for example and without limitation a pharmaceutically acceptable solvent. For example hydrates are formed when the solvent is water or alcoholates are formed when the solvent is an alcohol.

In some embodiments compounds and all different forms thereof e.g. free forms salts solvates isomeric forms as described herein may include crystalline and amorphous forms for example polymorphs pseudopolymorphs conformational polymorphs amorphous forms or a combination thereof. Polymorphs include different crystal packing arrangements of the same elemental composition of a compound. Polymorphs usually have different X ray diffraction patterns infrared spectra melting points density hardness crystal shape optical and electrical properties stability and or solubility. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various factors including recrystallization solvent rate of crystallization and storage temperature may cause a single crystal form to dominate.

In some embodiments compounds and all different forms thereof e.g. free forms salts solvates polymorphs as described herein include isomers such as geometrical isomers optical isomers based on asymmetric carbon stereoisomers tautomers individual enantiomers individual diastereomers racemates diastereomeric mixtures and combinations thereof and are not limited by the description of the formula illustrated for the sake of convenience.

In some embodiments pharmaceutical compositions in accordance with this invention may comprise a salt of such a compound preferably a pharmaceutically or physiologically acceptable salt. Pharmaceutical preparations will typically comprise one or more carriers excipients or diluents acceptable for the mode of administration of the preparation be it by injection inhalation topical administration lavage or other modes suitable for the selected treatment. Suitable carriers excipients or diluents are those known in the art for use in such modes of administration.

Suitable pharmaceutical compositions may be formulated by means known in the art and their mode of administration and dose determined by the skilled practitioner. For parenteral administration a compound may be dissolved in sterile water or saline or a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle used for administration of non water soluble compounds such as those used for vitamin K. For enteral administration the compound may be administered in a tablet capsule or dissolved in liquid form. The tablet or capsule may be enteric coated or in a formulation for sustained release. Many suitable formulations are known including polymeric or protein microparticles encapsulating a compound to be released ointments pastes gels hydrogels or solutions which can be used topically or locally to administer a compound. A sustained release patch or implant may be employed to provide release over a prolonged period of time. Many techniques known to one of skill in the art are described in by Alfonso Gennaro 20ed. Lippencott Williams Wilkins 2000 . Formulations for parenteral administration may for example contain excipients polyalkylene glycols such as polyethylene glycol oils of vegetable origin or hydrogenated naphthalenes. Biocompatible biodegradable lactide polymer lactide glycolide copolymer or polyoxyethylene polyoxypropylene copolymers may be used to control the release of the compounds. Other potentially useful parenteral delivery systems for modulatory compounds include ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer particles osmotic pumps implantable infusion systems and liposomes. Formulations for inhalation may contain excipients for example lactose or may be aqueous solutions containing for example polyoxyethylene 9 lauryl ether glycocholate and deoxycholate or may be oily solutions for administration in the form of nasal drops or as a gel.

Compounds or pharmaceutical compositions in accordance with this invention or for use in this invention may be administered by means of a medical device or appliance such as an implant graft prosthesis stent etc. Also implants may be devised which are intended to contain and release such compounds or compositions. An example would be an implant made of a polymeric material adapted to release the compound over a period of time.

An effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition according to the invention includes a therapeutically effective amount or a prophylactically effective amount. A therapeutically effective amount refers to an amount effective at dosages and for periods of time necessary to achieve the desired therapeutic result such as reduced tumor size increased life span or increased life expectancy. A therapeutically effective amount of a compound may vary according to factors such as the disease state age sex and weight of the subject and the ability of the compound to elicit a desired response in the subject. Dosage regimens may be adjusted to provide the optimum therapeutic response. A therapeutically effective amount is also one in which any toxic or detrimental effects of the compound are outweighed by the therapeutically beneficial effects. A prophylactically effective amount refers to an amount effective at dosages and for periods of time necessary to achieve the desired prophylactic result such as smaller tumors increased life span increased life expectancy or prevention of the progression of prostate cancer to lethal CRPC. Typically a prophylactic dose is used in subjects prior to or at an earlier stage of disease so that a prophylactically effective amount may be less than a therapeutically effective amount.

It is to be noted that dosage values may vary with the exact imaging protocol. For any particular subject specific dosage regimens may be adjusted over time according to the individual need and the professional judgement of the person administering or supervising the administration of the compositions. Dosage ranges set forth herein are exemplary only and do not limit the dosage ranges that may be selected by medical practitioners. The amount of active compound s in the composition may vary according to factors such as the disease state age sex and weight of the subject. Dosage regimens may be adjusted to provide the optimum imaging result. For example a single bolus may be administered several divided doses may be administered over time or the dose may be proportionally reduced or increased as indicated by the imaging results. It may be advantageous to formulate parenteral compositions in dosage unit form for ease of administration and uniformity of dosage.

In general compounds of the invention should be used without causing substantial toxicity. Toxicity of the compounds of the invention can be determined using standard techniques for example by testing in cell cultures or experimental animals and determining the therapeutic index i.e. the ratio between the LD50 the dose lethal to 50 of the population and the LD100 the dose lethal to 100 of the population . In some circumstances such as in severe disease conditions substantial excesses of the compositions may be administered for therapeutic effects. Some compounds of this invention may be toxic at some concentrations. Titration studies may be used to determine toxic and non toxic concentrations. Toxicity may be evaluated by examining a particular compound s or composition s specificity across cell lines using PC3 or DU145 cells as possible negative controls since these cells do not express functional AR. Animal studies may be used to provide an indication if the compound has any effects on other tissues. Systemic therapy that targets the AR will not likely cause major problems to other tissues since antiandrogens and androgen insensitivity syndrome are not fatal.

Compounds as described herein may be administered to a subject. As used herein a subject may be a human non human primate mammal rat mouse cow horse pig sheep goat dog cat and the like. The subject may be suspected of having or at risk for having a cancer such as prostate cancer breast cancer ovarian cancer salivary gland carcinoma or endometrial cancer or suspected of having or at risk for having acne hirsutism alopecia benign prostatic hyperplasia ovarian cysts polycystic ovary disease precocious puberty spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy or age related macular degeneration. Diagnostic methods for various cancers such as prostate cancer breast cancer ovarian cancer salivary gland carcinoma or endometrial cancer and diagnostic methods for acne hirsutism alopecia benign prostatic hyperplasia ovarian cysts polycystic ovary disease precocious puberty spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy or age related macular degeneration and the clinical delineation of cancer such as prostate cancer breast cancer ovarian cancer salivary gland carcinoma or endometrial cancer diagnoses and the clinical delineation of acne hirsutism alopecia benign prostatic hyperplasia ovarian cysts polycystic ovary disease precocious puberty spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy or age related macular degeneration are known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

Compounds for use in the present invention may be obtained from medical sources or modified using known methodologies from naturally occurring compounds. In addition methods of preparing or synthesizing compounds of the present invention will be understood by a person of skill in the art having reference to known chemical synthesis principles. For example Auzou et al 1974 9 5 548 554 describes suitable synthetic procedures that may be considered and suitably adapted for preparing compounds of any one of the compounds of structure I as set out above. Other references that may be helpful include Debasish Das Jyh Fu Lee and Soofin Cheng Sulfonic acid functionalized mesoporous MCM 41 silica as a convenient catalyst for Bisphenol A synthesis Chemical Communications 2001 2178 2179 U.S. Pat. No. 2 571 217 Davis Orris L. Knight Horace S. Skinner John R. Shell Development Co. Halohydrin ethers of phenols. 1951 and Rokicki G. Pawlicki J. Kuran W. Reactions of 4 chloromethyl 1 3 dioxolan 2 one with phenols as a new route to polyols and cyclic carbonates. Journal fuer Praktische Chemie Leipzig 1985 327 718 722.

For example exemplary compounds of the present invention may be prepared with reference to the following General Reaction Scheme I wherein Rand Rare as described above and Land Lare independently a leacing group 

Referring to General Reaction Scheme I bisphenol compounds of structure A can be purchased from commercial sources or prepared according to methods well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Compounds of structure A can be reacted with compounds of structure B under basic conditions e.g. NaH to yield compounds of structure C. In this regard particularily useful leaving groups L include p toulenesulfonates tosyl which can be prepared by reaction of the corresponding alcohol with tosyl chloride. Further various stereoisomers of compound B can be used depending on the desired stereochemistry of the final product. Various stereoisomer of B can be purchased or prepared according to methods known in the art. The radioactive iodine moiety I can be installed by reaction of C with an appropriate iodinating reagent for example NaI and a suitable oxidant e.g. NaClO to yield D. It should be noted that although General Reaction Scheme I depicts iodination at only one position other compounds of structure I with I at different positions and or multiple I substitutions can be prepared according to analogous methods known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

Reaction of D with epoxide E under basic conditions e.g. NaH yields compounds of structure F. Again tosyl leaving groups have been fond to be particularly useful as the Lmoiety and various stereoisomers of compound F can be used depending on the desired stereochemistry of the final product. Finally reaction of F with an appropriate reagent such as CeCl3.7HO yields G. Other compounds of structure I wherein R Rand or Rare moieties other than H can be prepared by further modification of compound G. For example alkylation with common alkylating reagents e.g. methyl idodide and or acylation with common acylating reagents e.g. acetyl chloride yields compounds of structure I wherein R Rand or Rare C Calkyl or C Calkylcarbonyl respectively.

One skilled in the art will recognize that variations to the order of the steps and reagents discussed in reference to the above General Synthetic Scheme I are possible. For example epoxidation may precede dioxalone formation. Further I atoms may be introduced via any number of reagents and iodination is not limited to those methods depicted or described above. Methods for such iodination are well known in the art. Methodologies for preparation of specific exemplary compounds of structure I are described in more detail in the following examples.

In addition protecting group strategies may be employed for preparation of the compounds disclosed herein. Such strategies are well known to those of skill in the art. Exemplary protecting groups and related strategies are disclosed in Greene s Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis Wiley Interscience 4 edition Oct. 30 2006 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. In certain embodiments a protecting group is used to mask an alcohol moiety while performing other chemical transformations. After removal of the protecting group the free hydroxyl is obtained. Such protecting groups and strategies are well known in the art.

The present compounds find particular utility in methods for imaging the prostate. In some embodiments a method for imaging benign conditions of the prostate e.g. benign prostatic hyperplasia comprising administering any of the foregoing pharmaceutical compositions to a subject and detecting the prostate is provided. Accordingly in another embodiment the present disclosure provides a method of imaging cancer the method comprising administering the foregoing pharmaceutical composition to a subject and detecting the presence or absence of cancer by use of SPECT.

In certain embodiments the method identifies the presence or absence of a tumor. For example some embodiments the method identifies the location of a tumor. In certain embodiments the cancer is prostate cancer for example castration resistant prostate cancer. In other embodiments the prostate cancer is androgen dependent prostate cancer. In some embodiments the subject is a mammal such as a human.

In some other embodiments the method is useful for detecting the presence of AR splice variants or other AR species that cannot be detected by imaging agents that interact with the AR LBD i.e. mutations truncations . Without wishing to be bound by any particular theory since the present compounds bind to the AR N terminal domain NTD even mutants or variants which lack the AR LBD can be imaged employing the present compounds. Thus the present methods may be useful for detecting AR species including mutants and variants which lack the LBD or have LBD mutations but do comprise the AR NTD. In other embodiments the method detects the presence or overexpression of AR splice variants lacking the ligand binding domain. For example the method may include sequential imaging with F FDHT and a compound of the invention and a discordant distribution or discordant level of uptake between F FDHT and the compound of the invention indicates the presence or overexpression of splice variants lacking the ligan binding domain.

In other embodiments the compounds of the invention are used in single photon emission computed tomography methods to monitor a patient s response to therapy. In other embodiments the methods comprise use of a compound of the invention to detect the AR NTD.

In another embodiment the present disclosure provides the use of any one of the foregoing compounds of Formula I for imaging cancer. For example in some embodiments the imaging is in a human patient.

In another embodiment the present disclosure provides the use of any one of the foregoing compounds of Formula I for imaging the prostate. For example in some embodiments the imaging is in a human patient.

In accordance with another embodiment there is provided a use of the compounds of Formula I as described anywhere herein for preparation of a medicament for imaging the prostate. The imaging may be for imaging of benign postate conditions of for imaging cancer e.g. tumors for example prostate cancer. The imaging may be by SPECT.

Alternatively the compounds may be administered to a mammal for imaging purposes. The administering and imaging may be to a mammal in need of diagnosis of at least one indication selected from the group consisting of prostate cancer breast cancer ovarian cancer endometrial cancer salivary gland carcinoma benign prostatic hyperplasia hair loss acne hirsutism ovarian cysts polycystic ovary disease precocious puberty spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy e.g. Kennedy s disease and age related macular degeneration. The mammalian cell may be a human cell. The imaging may be for imaging AR splice variants mutants or other AR species which comprise the AR NTD.

In some embodiments the compounds as described herein or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof may be used for imaging and diagnosis of at least one indication selected from the group consisting of prostate cancer breast cancer ovarian cancer endometrial cancer salivary gland carcinoma benign prostatic hyperplasia hair loss acne hirsutism ovarian cysts polycystic ovary disease precocious puberty spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy and age related macular degeneration. In some embodiments the compounds as described herein or acceptable salts thereof above may be used in the preparation of a medicament or a composition for imaging the prostate for example for imaging benign prostate conditions or for imaging prostate cancer in a subject in need of such imaging for example for diagnosis and or location of prostate tumors .

Some aspects of this invention make use of compositions comprising a compound described herein and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipients or carrier. In some embodiments the prostate cancer is castration resistant prostate cancer also referred to as hormone refractory androgen independent androgen deprivation resistant androgen ablation resistant androgen depletion independent castration recurrent anti androgen recurrent . In some embodiments the prostate cancer is androgen dependent or androgen sensitive. In other embodiments the imaging is for imaging a benign prostate conditions such as benign prostatic hyperplasia. Methods of imaging any of the indications described herein are also provided. Such methods may include administering a compound as described herein or a composition of a compound as described herein or an effective amount of a compound as described herein or composition of a compound as described herein to a subject in need thereof.

In other embodiments the present disclosure provides a method for modulating androgen receptor AR activity the method comprising administering to a mammalian cell one or more of the present compounds. In some embodiments the modulating of androgen receptor AR activity is in a mammalian cell.

In certain embodiments the method for modulating androgen receptor AR activity is for treatment of at least one indication selected from the group consisting of prostate cancer breast cancer ovarian cancer endometrial cancer salivary gland carcinoma hair loss acne hirsutism ovarian cysts polycystic ovary disease precocious puberty spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy and age related macular degeneration. In ceretain embodiments the indication is prostate cancer. In certain embodiments the prostate cancer is castration resistant prostate cancer. In other embodiments the prostate cancer is androgen dependent prostate cancer. In certain embodiments the spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy is Kennedy s disease.

In another aspect the present disclosure provides a method of modulating androgen receptor AR activity the method comprising administering a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound as described herein to a subject in need thereof.

In another aspect the present disclosure provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound as described herein and an additional therapeutic agent and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. In some embodiments the additional therapeutic agent is for treating prostate cancer breast cancer ovarian cancer endometrial cancer salivary gland carcinoma hair loss acne hirsutism ovarian cysts polycystic ovary disease precocious puberty spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy or age related macular degeneration. In other embodiments the additional therapeutic agent is enzalutamide galeterone ARN 509 ODN 201 abiraterone bicalutamide nilutamide flutamide cyproterone acetate docetaxel Bevacizumab Avastin OSU HDAC42 VITAXIN sunitumib ZD 4054 Cabazitaxel XRP 6258 MDX 010 Ipilimumab OGX 427 OGX 011 finasteride dutasteride turosteride bexlosteride izonsteride FCE 28260 SKF105 111 or related compounds thereof.

In an exemplary embodiment for imaging the prostate a dose of the disclosed compounds in solution typically 5 to 10 millicuries or 200 to 400 MBq is typically injected rapidly into a saline drip running into a vein in a patient. Then the patient is placed in the SPECT for a series of one or more scans which may take from 20 minutes to as long as an hour often only about one quarter of the body length may be imaged at a time . Methods for SPECT scanning are well known in the art.

All non aqueous reactions were performed in flame dried round bottomed flasks. The flasks were fitted with rubber septa and reactions were conducted under a positive pressure of argon unless otherwise specified. Stainless steel syringes were used to transfer air and moisture sensitive liquids. Flash column chromatography was performed as described by Still et al. Still W. C. Kahn M. Mitra A. 1978 43 2923 using 230 400 mesh silica gel. Thin layer chromatography was performed using aluminum plates pre coated with 0.25 mm 230 400 mesh silica gel impregnated with a fluorescent indicator 254 nm . Thin layer chromatography plates were visualized by exposure to ultraviolet light and a Seebach staining solution 700 mL water 10.5 g Cerium IV sulphate tetrahydrate 15.0 g molybdato phosphoric acid 17.5 g sulphuric acid followed by heating 1 min with a heating gun 250 C. . Organic solutions were concentrated on B chi R 114 rotatory evaporators at reduced pressure 15 30 torr house vacuum at 25 40 C.

Commercial regents and solvents were used as received. All solvents used for extraction and chromatography were HPLC grade. Normal phase Si gel Sep Paks were purchased from waters Inc. Thin layer chromatography plates were Kieselgel 60F. All synthetic reagents were purchased from Sigma Aldrich and Fisher Scientific Canada.

p Toluenesulfonyl chloride 6.5 g 34.1 mmol was added portionwise over a period of 10 min to a solution of S 1 2 isopropylideneglycerol 3.0 g 22.7 mmol and DMAP 30 mg 0.25 mmol in anhydrous pyridine 30 mL in a water bath. The resulting solution was stirred overnight. The pyridine was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was diluted with ethyl acetate 50 mL washed subsequently with water 2 40 mL cold aqueous 1 M HCl 40 mL saturated NaHCO 40 mL and water 40 mL . The organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated to give a light yellow oil. The crude product was purified by column chromatography eluent 10 ethyl acetate in hexane to 30 ethyl acetate in hexane to afford R 2 2 Dimethyl 1 3 dioxolane 4 methanol p toluenesulfonate i 5.91 g 90.9 yield as a colorless viscous oil.

Sodium hydride 60 dispersion in mineral oil 2.27 g 56.66 mmol 2.0 equiv was added slowly to a stirred solution of Bisphenol A 12.94 g 56.66 mmol 2 equiv in anhydrous dimethyl formamide 60 mL at room temperature and the contents were stirred under an atmosphere of argon for 20 min. Compound i 8.53 g 28.33 mmol 1.0 equiv was added and the mixture was allowed to react at 50 60 C. for 16 h. Next the reaction was quenched by the addition of a saturated solution of ammonium chloride 10 mL and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 50 mL . The organic layer was washed with deionized water 3 40 mL dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate filtered and then concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting residue was purified by flash column chromatography on silica gel eluent 5 ethyl acetate in hexane to 10 ethyl acetate in hexane to provide the title compound 8.10 g 83.5 as a sticky oil.

Compound ii 200 mg 0.58 mmol was dissolved in 4 mL of methanol. One equivalent of sodium iodide 85 mg 0.58 mmol and 1.5 equiv of sodium hydroxide 35 mg 0.88 mmol were added and the solution was cooled to 0 C. Aqueous sodium hypochlorite 800 mg 1 equiv 0.58 mmol of sodium hypochlorite was then added dropwise over 2 min at 0 3 C. The pH was kept to 6 7 by adding 10 HCl. The mixture was extracted with dichloromethane 2 20 mL . The organic layer was washed with deionized water 2 20 mL was dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate was filtered and was concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the title compound as a sticky oil.

Sodium hydride 60 dispersion in mineral oil 41.6 mg 1.04 mmol 2.0 equiv was added slowly to a stirred solution of compound iii in anhydrous dimethyl formamide 3 mL at room temperature and the contents were stirred under an atmosphere of argon for 10 min. A solution of 2R glycidyl tosylate 98 142 mg 0.62 mmol 1.5 equiv in anhydrous dimethyl formamide 2 mL was added via syringe and the mixture was allowed to react at 65 70 C. for 40 min. Next the reaction was quenched by the addition of a saturated solution of ammonium chloride 1 mL and the mixture was extracted with dichloromethane 2 20 mL . The organic layer was washed with deionized water 2 20 mL dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate filtered and then concentrated under reduced pressure to provide a compound iv.

To a solution of compound iv in acetonitrile 15 mL was added CeCl.7HO 391 mg 1.05 mmol 2.5 equiv and the mixture was refluxed for 1 h. The resulting white paste was filtered and washed with dichloromethane and the clear suspension was concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting residue was purified by flash column chromatography on silica gel eluent 25 ethyl acetate in hexane to 70 ethyl acetate in hexane to provide compound 1d 59 mg 19.6 total yield from compound ii as a sticky oil.

Compound ii 400 mg 1.17 mmol 1.0 equiv synthesized according to Example 1 was dissolved in 8 mL of methanol. Sodium iodide 157.4 mg 1.05 mmol 0.9 equiv and sodium hydroxide 70.4 mg 1.76 mmol 1.5 equiv were added and the solution was cooled to 0 C. A 5.4 aqueous sodium hypochlorite 1612.9 mg 1.17 mmol 1 equiv was then added dropwise over 5 min at 0 3 C. After 30 min the pH was kept to 6 7 by adding 10 HCl. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 30 mL . The organic layer was washed with deionized water 2 30 mL dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the title compound S 4 2 4 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxolan 4 yl methoxy phenyl propan 2 yl 2 iodophenol 460 mg 84 as an oil.

Sodium hydride 60 dispersion in mineral oil 12.8 mg 0.32 mmol 1.5 equiv was added slowly to a stirred solution of compound iii I 100 mg 0.21 mmol 1.0 equiv in anhydrous dimethyl formamide 2 mL at room temperature and the contents were stirred under an atmosphere of argon for 10 min. A solution of 2R glycidyl tosylate 98 73 mg 0.32 mmol 1.5 equiv in anhydrous dimethyl formamide 1 mL was added via syringe and the mixture was allowed to react at room temperature for 16 h. Next the reaction was quenched by the addition of a saturated solution of ammonium chloride 10 mL and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 20 mL . The organic layer was washed with deionized water 2 20 mL dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting residue was purified by flash column chromatography on silica gel eluent 20 ethyl acetate in hexane to 40 ethyl acetate in hexane to provide the title compound S 4 4 2 3 iodo 4 R oxiran 2 yl methoxy phenyl propan 2 yl phenoxy methyl 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxolane 106 mg 94.6 as a cream foam.

To a solution of compound iv 130 mg 0.25 mmol 1.0 equiv in acetonitrile 10 mL was added CeCl.7HO 235 mg 0.63 mmol 2.5 equiv and the mixture was refluxed for 16 h. The resulting white paste was filtered and washed with ethyl acetate and the clear suspension was concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting residue was purified by flash column chromatography on silica gel eluent 25 ethyl acetate in hexane to 70 ethyl acetate in hexane to provide the title compound 8d 110 mg 84.6 as a transparent oil.

Selectfluor 736.9 mg 2.08 mmol 0.95 equiv was added slowly to a stirred solution of Bisphenol A 500 mg 2.19 mmol 1.0 equiv in anhydrous acetonitrile 12 mL at room temperature and the contents were stirred under an atmosphere of argon for 16 h. Then the reaction was quenched by the addition of water 10 mL and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 20 mL . The organic layer was washed with deionized water 2 20 mL dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting residue was purified by flash column chromatography on silica gel eluent 1 ethyl acetate in dichloromethane to 5 ethyl acetate in dichloromethane to provide the title compound 300 mg 55.7 .

Sodium hydride 60 dispersion in mineral oil 32.4 mg 0.81 mmol 1.0 equiv was added slowly to a stirred solution of compound v F 200 mg 0.81 mmol 1.0 equiv in anhydrous dimethyl formamide 8 mL at room temperature and the contents were stirred under an atmosphere of argon for 20 min. Compound i 232 mg 0.81 mmol 1.0 equiv was added and the mixture was allowed to react at 50 60 C. for 16 h. Next the reaction was quenched by the addition of a saturated solution of ammonium chloride 10 mL and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 20 mL . The organic layer was washed with deionized water 2 20 mL dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate filtered and then concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting residue was purified by flash column chromatography on silica gel eluent 5 ethyl acetate in hexane to 10 ethyl acetate in hexane to provide the title compound 130 mg 44.5 as an oil.

Sodium hydride 60 dispersion in mineral oil 20.4 mg 0.51 mmol 1.5 equiv was added slowly to a stirred solution of compound ii F 124 mg 0.34 mmol 1.0 equiv in anhydrous dimethyl formamide 2 mL at room temperature and the contents were stirred under an atmosphere of argon for 10 min. A solution of 2R glycidyl tosylate 98 116.4 mg 0.51 mmol 1.5 equiv in anhydrous dimethyl formamide 1 mL was added via syringe and the mixture was allowed to react at room temperature for 16 h. Next the reaction was quenched by the addition of a saturated solution of ammonium chloride 10 mL and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 20 mL . The organic layer was washed with deionized water 2 20 mL dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting residue was purified by flash column chromatography on silica gel eluent 20 ethyl acetate in hexane to 40 ethyl acetate in hexane to provide the title compound 70 mg 49.4 as a clear foam.

To a solution of compound iv F 70 mg 0.17 mmol 1.0 equiv in acetonitrile 5 mL was added CeCl.7HO 160.2 mg 0.43 mmol 2.5 equiv and the mixture was refluxed for 16 h. The resulting white paste was filtered and washed with ethyl acetate and the clear suspension was concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting residue was purified by flash column chromatography on silica gel eluent 25 ethyl acetate in hexane to 70 ethyl acetate in hexane to provide the title compound 11d 43 mg 61.3 as a transparent oil.

The PSA luciferase 6.1 kb reporter contains functional AREs to which AR binds in response to androgen to induce luciferase activity. LNCaP cells were transfected with the PSA 6.1 kb luciferase reporter for 24 h and then treated with indicated concentration of 8d also referred as EPI iodide or iodinated EPI with synthetic androgen R1881 1 nM for 24 h. After 24 h of incubation with R1881 the cells were harvested and relative luciferase activities were determined . To determine the IC treatments were normalized to the predicted maximal activity induction in the absence of test compounds vehicle only . From a representative experiment it was determined that the 8d has an ICof 1.17 0.22 M for inhibition of AR transcriptional activity.

To assess specificity for the AR parallel experiments were performed in LNCaP cells with endogenous AR and ectopic expression of other closely related human hormone receptors such as the progesterone receptor beta PR glucocorticoid receptor GR and estrogen receptor ER .

To measure effect on AR after the LNCaP cells were transfected with the PSA 6.1 kb luciferase reporter for 24 h they were then treated with DMSO 5 M MDV3100 25 M Z also referred to as EPI 002 or EPI or 1.9 M 8d with or without 1 nM R1881 for 24 h . Compound 8d strongly inhibited androgen induced PSA luciferase activity.

LNCaP cells were cotransfected with the expression plasmids for full length human PR and the relative reporter PRE luciferase for 24 h and then treated with DMSO 5 M MDV3100 25 M Z or 1.9 M 8d with or without 10 nM progesterone for 24 h . Compound 8d had no effect on the transcriptional activity of closely related PR .

Under conditions where compound 8d strongly inhibited AR driven PSA luciferase activity PR b GR or ER activity were not inhibited . These data support that compound 8d has specificity for the AR.

Competitive ligand binding assays to detect the displacement of fluorescently labeled ligand from recombinant LBDs ligand binding domains of AR PR GR and estrogen receptor ER by R1881 MDV3100 Z also referred to as EPI 002 or EPI or 8d also referred to as iodinated EPI were performed. display competitive ligand binding curves to indicate whether R1881 Z antiandrogens enzalutamide hydroxyflutamide bicalutamide or 8d can displace 1 nM fluorescently labeled cognant ligand from recombinant LBDs of steroid hormone receptors by using fluorescent polarization mP . Serial dilution was performed for each test compound. Mixtures were incubated for 5 h before measurement of fluorescent polarization. The data shows 8d does not bind to LBDs of AR PR GR and ER.

Covalent binding experiments of 1d also referred to as I EPI to recombinant protein AR activation function 1 AF1 was evaluated by SDS PAGE . After 6 h incubation at room temperature 1d bound to the recombinant protein AR AF1. Less binding of 1d was observed when AR AF1 was pre incubated with cold Z which is thought to bind to the same site as 1d. The SDS PAGE gel was stained with Coomassie blue for loading control of the amount of AF1 protein. The data demonstrates that 1d binds to AF1 in the AR NTD.

Effects of 8d also referred to as I EPI 002 on androgen dependent proliferation of LNCaP cells treated with R1881 were compared with PC3 and DU145 cell viability by alamarBlue Cell Viability Assay . 8d had no effect on the viability of PC3 and DU145 prostate cancer cells that do not express functional AR at concentrations that reduced AR dependent proliferation of LNCaP cells. shows PC3 at day 3 LNCaP at day 4 and DU145 at day 3.

LNCaP cells were transiently transfected with PSA 6.1 kb luciferase for 24 h prior to pre treatment with compounds of the invention e.g. compounds 9d 10d 11d ranging in concentration from 62.5 ng ml to 1.5 ug ml for 1 hour before the addition of vehicle or synthetic androgen R1881 1 nM to induce luciferase production. After 24 h of incubation with R1881 the cells were harvested and relative luciferase activities were determined. To determine the IC treatments were normalized to the predicted maximal activity induction in the absence of test compounds vehicle only .

Although various embodiments of the invention are disclosed herein many adaptations and modifications may be made within the scope of the invention in accordance with the common general knowledge of those skilled in this art. Such modifications include the substitution of known equivalents for any aspect of the invention in order to achieve the same result in substantially the same way. Numeric ranges are inclusive of the numbers defining the range. The word comprising is used herein as an open ended term substantially equivalent to the phrase including but not limited to and the word comprises has a corresponding meaning. As used herein the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a thing includes more than one such thing. Citation of references herein is not an admission that such references are prior art to the present invention. Any priority document s and all publications including but not limited to patents and patent applications cited in this specification are incorporated herein by reference as if each individual publication were specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference herein and as though fully set forth herein. The invention includes all embodiments and variations substantially as hereinbefore described and with reference to the examples and drawings.

