---

title: Trigger guard roll pin tool
abstract: This trigger guard roll pin tool makes it possible to safely and quickly install or remove the trigger guard roll pin on a conventional M16/M4 family weapon. In the disassembly or reassembly of the trigger guard on such weapons the handling of the trigger guard roll pin element is often a manually challenging and painstaking activity that can result in damage to the weapon if done incorrectly. This disclosed tool handily is an assist in such activities. The trigger guard roll pin tool makes it possible to remove and install the trigger guard roll pin without risking breakage of the roll pin flanges on the lower receiver.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08984794&OS=08984794&RS=08984794
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08984794
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140325
---
The inventions described herein may be made used or licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

This tool generally makes possible more convenient handling of the removal and installation of a roll pin that retains a trigger guard in a lower receiver on a conventional M16 M4 family weapon when the installation or removal of the trigger guard hence the installation or removal of the retaining roll pin is desired. As will be appreciated by those in the gun repair trade the disassembly or reassembly of the trigger guard and allied elements e.g. the roll pin of such weapons is a challenging tricky and painstaking activity sometimes resulting in damage to the lower receiver thus greatly needing improved assist. The disclosed tool handily is a great addition and assists in such activities.

The description as follows includes directional designations such as up down left right lateral transverse longitudinal top bottom vertical and the like that are taken from the perspective of a firearm e.g. a conventional AR 10 AR 15 M16 family style platform or pattern rifle and M4 pattern carbine and variants thereof as typically held and operated by a user.

The description assumes the level of knowledge held by an ordinary armorer gunsmith repair or assembly technician user operator maintenance personnel and the like for a conventional AR 15 M16 pattern rifle and M4 pattern carbine and variants thereof and the respective components and operation thereof. The environment forms no part of the invention. Likewise designations such as a an and the are not to be construed to be limited to a singular item or action unless apparent from the context or definitely described as such.

As used herein elements having numbers more than and less than generally refer to conventional elements known in the art by one having ordinary skill with respect to a rifle firearm weapon carbine and the like generally AR 10 AR 15 M16 rifle M4 carbine families while elements number and above refer to the present invention or elements components and the like thereof. Like numbered elements generally refer to the same element however the like numbered elements may include a suffix L to designate the left side element and a suffix R to designate the right side element when left and right elements are mirrors of each other.

As further understood by those having ordinary skill in the art the conventional M16 M4 AR 15 family weapons are made to an exacting technical data description that is agreed upon by manufacturers of not only the firearms but the numerous aftermarket accessories as well and as such provides interchangeability and modularity within and between manufacturers using such designation. As such designation of the subject firearms as being within M16 M4 AR 15 family weapons provides the indication designation of de facto standardization of the components so designated. Thus such designation is distinct and particular as used in connection with claims directed thereto.

During assembly and repair operations of AR 15 M16 pattern style or family rifles and M4 pattern style or family carbines i.e. weapons and variants thereof referred to as guns weapons or firearms hereafter the trigger guards i.e. mechanism assembly devices etc. of such weapons as is well known to those skilled in the art of the assembly maintenance and repair of the weapons are often removed and installed or reinstalled . Such operations may include tasks such as but not limited to initial firearm assembly installation of new trigger guards to replace damaged trigger guards upgrading of trigger guards etc.

Referring to illustrate conventional prior art AR 15 M16 rifle and M4 carbine pattern lower receivers . is a left side elevation of a bare stripped lower receiver . The lower receiver shown on is intact. is an isometric view from the upper right front with inset A which is an isometric view from the upper right rear that illustrates the user U using the conventional tools i.e. the punch the hammer and the pad during the process of trigger guard retention roll pin installation or removal. is an isometric view of the receiver from the lower left rear that illustrates an example of a flange L that was broken during an unfortunate but all too common failed attempt to install the trigger guard retention roll pin .

During assembly repair and replacement operations of the AR 15 M16 pattern rifles and M4 pattern carbines i.e. firearms weapons etc. and variants thereof a trigger guard element of the lower receiver may be installed or removed. As understood by one of skill in the art e.g. an armorer gunsmith user operator repair or assembly technician maintenance personnel and the like U the rear portion of the trigger guard is held retained in the lower receiver by a tension pin e.g. roll pin split pin C pin spiral pin coil pin etc. that is inserted between driven into lateral holes e.g. holes L and R within laterally opposing first and second flanges tangs tabs ears etc. e.g. ears L and R on the lower receiver subassembly of the firearm forward of the hand grip mounting region e.g. a hand grip flange and through an intervening lateral hole channel passage etc. in the rear of trigger guard . The most commonly used tension pin is a roll pin split pin . As such hereinafter the tension pin is non exclusively referred to as a roll pin. The hand grip flange includes a threaded hole which matingly receives a threaded screw or bolt see for example to retain a hand pistol grip not shown as part of the assembly process as understood by one skilled in the art.

As illustrated on including inset A conventional tools and a conventional process that have been used for AR 15 M16 rifle and M4 carbine trigger guard roll pin installation and removal include a pin punch i.e. punch with a flat tip a hammer and an impact resistant pad or block that is placed behind the lower receiver at the roll pin flange that is opposite the side from which the roll pin is inserted. The pad is typically placed on a work bench or table not shown . The user U manually positions the trigger guard laterally aligns the roll pin and drives the roll pin into position through the holes via taps hits blows and the like to the punch with the hammer . Alternatively not illustrated the roll pin may also be pressed squeezed into position through the holes e.g. pressed using a C clamp pliers or the like laterally positioned across the roll pin tangs however the pressing of the roll pin approach also has the same occasional undesirable consequences i.e. breakage of a roll pin flange described below in connection with as drying the pin .

Unfortunately as illustrated on even when care is taken by attempting to remove burrs lubricate and correctly align the roll pin with both of the lower receiver flange holes L and R and the intervening hole through the rear of the trigger guard and the impact pad is carefully positioned occasionally the roll pin insertion or removal process will go awry and one of the roll pin flanges is broken off the lower receiver . As the lower receiver is a costly and federally regulated i.e. registered as a firearm part breaking the lower receiver is a potentially costly burdensome occurrence. On the distance TO illustrates a tang offset by which the trigger guards are offset inward from the outer lateral surfaces of the receiver .

The broken receiver may be rendered inoperable by the user and discarded. Alternatively users who break one or both roll pin flanges may i repair the broken flange with expensive welding grinding and refinish processes ii repair the broken flange with a relatively weak epoxy joint and hope that the broken flange does not encounter any mechanical stress or iii hide the broken flange with a commercially available pistol grip that incorporates a trigger guard e.g. STARK SE 1 grip MAGFUL MIAD registered trademark grip which may be costly and uncomfortable to the user. So common is the breakage of the flange that the replacement grips that hide the broken roll pin flange are often referred to sometimes with Schadenfreude as the grip of shame . Clearly a better approach is to not break the roll pin flange .

A conventional approach to avoid breaking the roll pin flange is to not use a roll pin instead to tap threads or install thread adapter inserts into the holes and install low profile head screws to retain the trigger guard . However such an approach has the deficiencies of being expensive requires special tools and skills to perform may defeat the swing down winter i.e. thick glove use feature of the trigger guard the trigger guard may be loose flop wiggle and the screws may back out unless additional steps such as adding retention compound are taken which may make removal of the screws difficult.

Thus there is a need and a desire for a system and a process that overcomes one or more of the deficiencies of conventional devices and processes.

The description herein assumes the level of knowledge held by an ordinary armorer gunsmith repair or assembly technician user operator maintenance personnel end the like for a conventional AR 15 M16 pattern rifle and M4 pattern carbine and variants thereof and the respective components and operation thereof. The description may include directional designations such as up down left right lateral transverse longitudinal top bottom vertical and the like that are taken from the perspective of a firearm e.g. a conventional AR 10 AR 15 M16 family style platform or pattern rifle and M4 pattern carbine and variants thereof as typically held and operated by a user.

The present invention is directed to an armorer or gunsmith tool. In particular the invention is a tool used as a trigger guard roll pin installation and removal process aid for AR 15 M16 rifles and M4 carbines. AR 15 M16 pattern rifles and M4 pattern carbines and variants thereof are very prolific having been produced more or less continuously since first introduced circa 1961. Such firearms are found throughout the world with millions of copies of each produced and in use by numerous civilian personnel and law enforcement and military agencies including use as the standard infantry firearm in much of the U.S. military. The invention is a tool that may be implemented in connection with an AR 15 M16 rifle and M4 carbine lower receiver to quickly and easily provide trigger guard retention roll pin installation and removal and prevent damage to the firearm specifically breakage of the trigger guard retention flanges at a relatively low cost. The invention will generally help reduce or prevent damage to components of the firearm during assembly repair and replacement operations.

The invention provides a secure robust relatively low cost trigger guard roll pin installation and removal tool for easy and convenient use in connection with a conventional AR 15 M16 pattern rifle and M4 pattern carbine firearms and variants thereof. The invention securely mounts on a conventional lower receiver at the pistol grip mounting location i.e. the pistol grip flange and provides positive stable support of the lower receiver flange to reduce or prevent likelihood of breakage of the trigger guard pin flanges during trigger guard retention pin installation and removal processes. The trigger guard roll pin tool is quickly and easily removed when the desired tasks are completed. Mounting is achieved by mounting the trigger guard roll pin tool on the pistol flange and securing the tool via the standard pistol grip hand grip screw or similarly sized and threaded bolt screw wing bolt or the like installed into the hand grip screw hole . Furthermore the trigger guard roll pin tool may be used when the fire control selector remains installed in the lower receiver . Thus avoiding the lost time involved with removal and re installation of the selector .

For the user U to determine whether the roll pin is driven in to the proper depth i.e. not too shallow and not too deep during installation or when the roll pin has been driven out during removal techniques such as i visual inspection ii insertion of a shim or other thin device between the tool and the flanges of the lower receiver iii inspection of the length of the pin punch shaft portion that extends outside of the installation guide tool or the like can be used.

The description as follows is directed to a trigger guard roll pin tool wherein elements of the tool are numbered and above and includes directional designations such as up down left L right R lateral transverse longitudinal front forward back backward rearward top bottom vertical and the like that are generally taken from the perspective of a firearm gun weapon and the like e.g. a conventional AR 10 AR 15 M16 M4 family style platform or pattern rifle and carbine and variants thereof as typically held and operated e.g. fired .

The description is generally related to and made in connection with the AR 15 M16 pattern platform style or family rifles and M4 pattern carbines i.e. weapons and variants thereof referred to as guns weapons or firearms hereafter . The description is generally applicable to removal and installation of the retention roll pin for the trigger guard subassembly e.g. the roll pin and the tool may be advantageously implemented in connection with other firearms having the same or similar trigger guards. The trigger guard roll pin tool is generally mounted on the lower receiver in lieu of the hand grip to aid the removal and installation of the trigger guard subassembly . The trigger guard roll pin tool generally provides a strong secure stable support to the trigger guard flange e.g. the trigger guard flanges R and L the thus reducing the risk of breakage during removal and installation of the retention roll pin .

Elements numbered and above of the present invention may include but are not necessarily included in all embodiments and are not limited to 

Referring to an isometric view from the left front upper point of view of a trigger guard roll pin tool of the present invention is shown. The trigger guard roll pin tool comprises a mounting body and successively to the left of the mounting body a flange support a spacer and a base . Alternatively not shown a right side mirror embodiment of the invention may be implemented instead of the left side embodiment. The right side embodiment may be preferred by left handed users.

The tool is generally molded cast and or machined from a high or heavy density polyethylene HDPE ultra high molecular weight polyethylene UHMWPE or UHMW high strength nylon e.g. Nylon 6 DELRIN RYNITE filled reinforced polymer or metal such as aluminum steel brass or the like. The tool may be formed as a single unit alternatively the tool may be an assembly of two or more parts that are securely joined. However any appropriate material and manufacturing technique process may be implemented to meet the design criteria of a particular application.

The roll pin tool provides support to the lower receiver flange to reduce or prevent likelihood of breakage of the trigger guard pin flanges during the trigger guard roll pin installation and removal processes. The trigger guard roll pin tool is quickly and easily removed when the desired tasks are started and when completed. The mounting body includes a cavity void that is sized and shaped to provide for mounting the tool on the grip mounting flange .

The flange support is generally implemented as a step ledge ridge and the like at the front of the tool . The flange support fits tightly against e.g. adjacent the flange L and thereby reduces or prevents flex and breakage of the ear L when the roll pin is driven in or out of i.e. through the pin hole L. The spacer spaces the base away from the receiver and provides clearance for the selector such that the selector does not have to be removed from the receiver . The base holds the receiver and provides an impact resistant surface.

The firearm tool is generally used by a user such as an armorer gunsmith repair or assembly technician maintenance personnel and the like. However a home non commercial user may find the trigger guard roll pin tool to be a useful aid as well.

While the invention may have been described with reference to certain embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

