---

title: Methods and systems for determining routes in a navigation system
abstract: Methods and systems for determining one or more routes in a navigation system. A request comprising a first set of parameters corresponding to a trip is received. The first set of parameters comprise at least one an originating node for the trip, a destination node for the trip, a start time for the trip, or a set of preferences associated with the trip. The one or more routes between the originating node and the destination node are determined based on the first set of parameters. Each of the one or more routes comprises at least one public transportation sub-trip traversed by a public vehicle and a private transportation sub-trip traversed by a private vehicle. The one or more routes are ranked based on a trip score associated with the one or more routes. The trip score is determined based on the set of preferences.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09228841&OS=09228841&RS=09228841
owner: Xerox Corporation
number: 09228841
owner_city: Norwalk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140602
---
The presently disclosed embodiments are related in general to a navigation system. More particularly the presently disclosed embodiments are related to methods and systems for determining routes in the navigation system.

Navigation systems may facilitate users to plan a trip between different geographic locations. Various public and private transportation authorities may utilize different navigation systems to facilitate their users to plan the trip. A user may plan a trip using public transportation modes e.g. buses trains trams metros or private transportation modes e.g. taxis pooled cars hired bicycles . Typically a user may provide a number of input parameters such as an originating node a destination node timing details and the like while planning the trip between the originating node and the destination node. The navigation system may provide the user various options to traverse the journey between the originating node and the destination node.

However with the economic growth catering to the transportation requirements through public transportation infrastructure alone may be difficult. Continuous expansion of the public transportation infrastructure to meet the increasing demand is not feasible considering cost and space constraints. In addition limited reach and timing constraints associated with the public transportation systems have led to increasing need of private transportation systems. However the private transportations systems also have their limitations such as increased costs parking issues increase carbon emission etc. In addition private transportation systems generally have low acceptance by the users in terms of sharing their cars for ridesharing purposes.

According to embodiments illustrated herein there is provided a method for determining one or more routes in a navigation system. The method includes receiving a request comprising a first set of parameters corresponding to a trip. The first set of parameters comprises at least one of an originating node for the trip a destination node for the trip a start time for the trip or a set of preferences associated with the trip. The set of preferences comprises at least one of ridesharing constraints tolerance constraints and route constraints. The method further includes determining the one or more routes between the originating node and the destination node based on the first set of parameters. Each of the one or more routes comprises at least one public transportation sub trip traversed by a public vehicle and a private transportation sub trip traversed by a private vehicle. The method further includes ranking the one or more routes based on a trip score associated with each of the one or more routes determined based on the set of preferences. The method is performed by one or more processors.

According to embodiments illustrated herein there is provided a method for determining one or more routes in a navigation system. The method includes receiving a request comprising a first set of parameters corresponding to a trip. The first set of parameters comprises at least one of an originating node for the trip a destination node for the trip a start time for the trip or a set of preferences associated with the trip. The method further includes determining the one or more routes between the originating node and the destination node based on the first set of parameters. Each of the one or more routes comprises at least one public transportation sub trip and a private transportation sub trip. The method for determining the one or more routes includes determining a plurality of intermediate nodes between the originating node and the destination node. The originating node the destination node and the plurality of intermediate nodes constitute a set of nodes. The method for determining the one or more routes further includes determining the private transportation sub trip between a first node from the set of nodes and a second node from the set of nodes. The second node has greater distance from the originating node than the first node. The private transportation sub trip between the first node and the second node is traversed by a private vehicle. The method for determining the one or more routes further includes determining the at least one public transportation sub trip comprising the first node and the second node. The at least one public transportation sub trip is traversed by a public vehicle. The method is performed by one or more processors.

According to embodiments illustrated herein there is provided a system for determining one or more routes in a navigation system. The system includes one or more processors operable to receive a request comprising a first set of parameters corresponding to a trip. The first set of parameters comprises at least one of an originating node for the trip a destination node for the trip a start time for the trip or a set of preferences associated with the trip. The set of preferences comprises at least one of ridesharing constraints tolerance constraints and route constraints. The one or more processors are further operable to determine the one or more routes between the originating node and the destination node based on the first set of parameters. Each of the one or more routes comprises at least one public transportation sub trip traversed by a public vehicle and a private transportation sub trip traversed by a private vehicle. The one or more processors are further operable to rank the one or more routes based on a trip score associated with each of the one or more routes determined based on the set of preferences.

According to embodiments illustrated herein there is provided a computer program product for use with a computer. The computer program product includes a non transitory computer readable medium. The non transitory computer readable medium stores a computer program code for determining one or more routes in a navigation system. The computer program code is executable by one or more processors to receive a request comprising a first set of parameters corresponding to a trip. The first set of parameters comprises at least one of an originating node for the trip a destination node for the trip a start time for the trip or a set of preferences associated with the trip. The set of preferences comprises at least one of ridesharing constraints tolerance constraints and route constraints. The computer program code is further executable by the one or more processors to determine the one or more routes between the originating node and the destination node based on the first set of parameters. Each of the one or more routes comprises at least one public transportation sub trip traversed by a public vehicle and a private transportation sub trip traversed by a private vehicle. The computer program code is further executable by the one or more processors to rank the one or more routes based on a trip score associated with each of the one or more routes determined based on the set of preferences

The present disclosure is best understood with reference to the detailed figures and descriptions set forth herein. Various embodiments are discussed below with reference to the figures. However those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that the detailed descriptions given herein with respect to the figures are simply for explanatory purposes as the methods and systems may extend beyond the described embodiments. For example the teachings presented and the needs of a particular application may yield multiple alternate and suitable approaches to implement the functionality of any detail described herein. Therefore any approach may extend beyond the particular implementation choices in the following embodiments described and shown.

References to one embodiment an embodiment at least one embodiment one example an example for example and so on indicate that the embodiment s or example s so described may include a particular feature structure characteristic property element or limitation but that not every embodiment or example necessarily includes that particular feature structure characteristic property element or limitation. Furthermore repeated use of the phrase in an embodiment does not necessarily refer to the same embodiment.

Definitions The following terms shall have for the purposes of this application the respective meanings set forth below.

A navigation system refers to a framework tool application software that may be utilized for planning a trip between two geographical locations. The trip between the two geographical locations may be traversed through one or more routes. In an embodiment the navigation system may provide a user various options to traverse the one or more routes based on the inputs provided by the user. In an embodiment the navigation system may determine the one or more routes such that each route from the one or more routes includes a private transportation sub trip and at least one public transportation sub trip. Thus the combination of the private transportation sub trip and the at least one public transportation sub trip completes the trip between the two geographical locations.

A private transportation sub trip corresponds to a part of the route determined by the navigation system which is traversed by a private vehicle. Examples of the private vehicles may include a personal car a pooled car a hired taxi a hired bicycle and the like.

A public transportation sub trip corresponds to a part of the route determined by the navigation system which is traversed by a public vehicle. Examples of the public vehicles may include buses trains metro trams and the like.

 A first set of parameters refers to one or more parameters provided by the user who wants to plan the trip. In an embodiment the first set of parameters may include parameters such as but not limited to an originating node i.e. the geographical location from where the user wants to start the trip a destination node i.e. the geographical location where the user wants to end the trip a start time i.e. a time when the trip is planned to be started and a set of preferences.

 A set of preferences refers to one or more preferences selected by the user while planning the trip. In an embodiment the user may provide different types of preferences such as ridesharing constraints tolerance constraints and route constraints. The user may select the one or more preferences using a traveler portal accessed through a computing device associated with the user.

 Ridesharing constraints refer to the preferences selected by the user that are related to preferences for the co passengers and the private vehicle type. For example the ridesharing constraints may refer to at least one of a make of the private vehicle maximum occupancy level of the private vehicle maximum number of co passengers in the private vehicle acquaintance with the co passengers maximum deviation of distance from shortest distance between the originating node and the destination node or maximum deviation of time from the start time for the trip.

 Tolerance constraints selected by the user may include at least one of a relevancy level of carbon footprint on the trip a relevancy level of cost for the trip and a relevancy level of duration of the trip. That is through the tolerance constraints the user may specify weights to be assigned to different factors e.g. carbon footprint cost duration etc. . In addition the tolerance constraints may include at least one of maximum number of hops in the trip maximum deviation of distance from the originating node maximum deviation of distance from the destination node maximum distance of walking sub trips or maximum waiting time in the trip. That is the user may also provide various thresholds e.g. related to number of hops deviation etc. through the tolerance constraints.

 Route constraints may refer to preferences selected by the user that are related to constraints in the routes between the originating node and the destination node. For example the route constraints may include at least one of inclusion of a node in the trip exclusion of a node in the trip inclusion of a route in the trip exclusion of a route in the trip travel mode of the trip or a preferred time for the trip.

A trip score may refer to a numerical value assigned to each of the one or more routes determined by the navigation system. In an embodiment the navigation system may determine the trip score based on the set of preferences selected by the user. Further in an embodiment the navigation system ranks the one or more routes based on the determined trip score.

The user computing device refers to a computing device used by a user who wants to plan a trip between an originating node and a destination node. In an embodiment the user may provide a first set of parameters through a traveler s portal installed on the user computing device . In an embodiment the traveler s portal is received by the user computing device from the application server . The user may provide the first set of parameters as an input to the traveler s portal using an input device such as keyboard mouse touch interface joystick associated with the user computing device . In an alternate embodiment using the user computing device the user may provide the first set of parameters on a user interface on the application server that may be accessed through a web interface. The user computing device may receive one or more routes determined by the application server on a display device associated with the user computing device . The user computing device may include a variety of computing devices such as a desktop a laptop a personal digital assistant PDA a tablet computer and the like.

The application server refers to a computing device that determines the one or more routes based on the first set of parameters received from the user through the user computing device . In an embodiment the application server receives the first set of parameters from the traveler s portal installed on the user computing device . In an alternate embodiment the application server receives the first set of parameters through the user interface presented to the user through the web interface. Based on the first set of parameters the application server may determine the one or more routes. In an embodiment the application server may access at least one of the private transportation system server the public transportation system server the congestion monitoring system server or the carbon footprint calculator to determine the one or more routes. In an alternate embodiment the application server may access the database server to receive information pertaining to the private transportation system or the public transportation system. The determined one or more routes may include a private transportation sub trip and at least one public transportation sub trip. In an embodiment the application server may determine a trip score corresponding to each route from the one or more routes. Subsequently based on the trip score the application server may rank the one or more routes and present the ranked one or more routes on the display device associated with the user computing device . In an embodiment the application server may receive a selection of a route from the one or more presented routes from the user. Thereafter the application server may determine a booking status of the private transportation sub trip included in the selected route. The application server may confirm the user about the booking status and accordingly may prompt the user to select an alternative route. Further details about the determination of the one or more routes and subsequent steps have been discussed in conjunction with . The application server may be realized through various types of servers such as but not limited to Java server .NET framework and Base4 server.

The database server refers to a computing device that stores a transportation database. In an embodiment the transportation database includes information pertaining to the public transportation system and or the private transportation system. In an embodiment the database server may receive such information from the private transportation system server and the public transportation system server . In an embodiment the transportation database may include information pertaining to the walking time between different nodes. In an embodiment the transportation database may store a map database that includes information pertaining to various nodes i.e. geographical locations that are interconnected by different routes. Further in an embodiment the transportation database may store the information pertaining to the carbon emission levels or congestions levels at different nodes. For such information the database server may query the congestion monitoring system server and the carbon footprint calculator . In an embodiment the database server receives a query from the application server to extract the information pertaining to at least one of the public transportation system the private transportation system carbon emission levels congestion levels or map database. The database server may receive a query from the application server to retrieve such information using one or more querying languages such as but not limited to SQL QUEL DMX and so forth. The database server may be realized through various technologies such as but not limited to Microsoft SQL server Oracle and My SQL . In an embodiment various nodes e.g. the application server the private transportation system server the public transportation system server etc. may be connected to the database server using one or more protocols such as but not limited to ODBC protocol and JDBC protocol.

In an embodiment database server may be updated. For example the database server may transmit an HTTP request to at least one of the private transportation system server or the public transportation system server to receive the latest information pertaining to the private transportation system and the public transportation system. The database server may receive the latest information pertaining to paths followed by the public private vehicles vehicle ids of the public private vehicles real time location of the public private vehicles public private vehicle s availability and the like. In an alternate embodiment the database server may by updated through the RSS feeds. In an alternate embodiment at least one of the private transportation system server or the public transportation system server may run one or more application programmable interfaces APIs to provide the latest information pertaining to the public transportation system and the private transportation system to the database server . For example the private transportation system server may execute the APIs to provide the information in the format of a text file in which different fields may correspond to different types of information. For example first line may correspond to current location of the private vehicle e.g. through the GPS coordinates second line may correspond to the private vehicle s availability and the like. In a similar way other types of the information pertaining to the public transportation system and the private transportation system as disclosed above may be retrieved by the database server . In an embodiment the database server may be updated with latest information pertaining to the congestion levels and the carbon emission levels at different nodes at various time intervals of the day. In such a scenario the database server may query the congestion monitoring system server or the carbon footprint calculator to provide the latest information about the congestion levels and the carbon emission levels respectively.

It will be apparent to a person having ordinary skill in the art that the functionalities of the database server may be integrated with the application server without departing from the scope of the disclosure. In such a scenario the application server may query at least one of the private transportation system server the public transportation system server the congestion monitoring system server or the carbon footprint calculator to retrieve the latest information pertaining to respective servers.

The private transportation system server refers to a computing device associated with the private transportation system. In an embodiment the private transportation system server includes information pertaining to the private transportation system such as but not limited to the private vehicle s id contact details of the private vehicle s owner available capacity in the private vehicle path followed by the private vehicle pick up locations of the private vehicle arrival time of the private vehicle and departure time of the private vehicle. In an embodiment the private transportation system server may receive a query from at least one of the application server or the database server to retrieve the information pertaining to the private transportation system. Further the private transportation system server may include a private transportation system portal using which the information pertaining to the private transportation system may be provided to the application server . Further details and illustration of the private transportation system server have been discussed in conjunction with the . The private transportation system server may be realized through various types of servers such as but not limited to Java server .NET framework and Base4 server.

The public transportation system server refers to a computing device associated with the public transportation system. In an embodiment the public transportation system server include information pertaining to the public transportation system such as but not limited to the public vehicle s id arrival time of the public vehicle departure time of the public vehicle travel mode of the at least one public transportation sub trip ticket price between different nodes or path followed by the public vehicle. In an embodiment the public transportation system server may receive a query from at least one of the application server or the database server to retrieve the information pertaining to the public transportation system. Further the private transportation system server may include a public transportation system portal using which the information pertaining to the public transportation system may be provided to the application server . Further details and illustration of the public transportation system server have been discussed in conjunction with the . The public transportation system server may be realized through various types of servers such as but not limited to Java server .NET framework and Base4 server.

The congestion monitoring system server may refer to a computing device corresponding to a congestion monitoring system that includes information pertaining to the congestion levels at different nodes at various time intervals of the day. In an embodiment the congestion monitoring system server may receive a query from at least one of the application server or the database server to retrieve the information pertaining to the congestion levels. In an embodiment the congestion monitoring system server may track the location information of different users e.g. through GPS and based on the tracked location information the congestion monitoring system server may determine the congestion levels at various nodes. The congestion monitoring system server may be realized through various types of servers such as but not limited to Java server .NET framework and Base4 server.

The carbon footprint calculator refers to a computing device that maintains information pertaining to the carbon emission levels at different nodes at various time intervals of the day. In an embodiment the carbon footprint calculator may receive a query from at least one of the application server or the database server to retrieve the information pertaining to the carbon emission levels. In such a scenario the carbon footprint calculator may determine the carbon emission levels based on the information received e.g. nodes details timing details etc. from at least one of the application server and the database server . The carbon footprint calculator may be realized through various types of servers such as but not limited to Java server .NET framework and Base4 server.

The network corresponds to a medium through which content and messages signals flow between various devices of the system environment . Examples of the network may include but are not limited to a Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi network a Wireless Area Network WAN a Local Area Network LAN or a Metropolitan Area Network MAN . Various devices in the system environment can connect to the network in accordance with various wired and wireless communication protocols such as Transmission Control Protocol and Internet Protocol TCP IP User Datagram Protocol UDP and 2G 3G or 4G communication protocols.

A request from the user computing device for determining the one or more routes is received depicted by message . The application server receives the request. As discussed the application server may receive the request from the traveler s portal installed on the user computing device or through the user interface presented to the user. The user may provide the first set of parameters using the traveler s portal or the user interface. The first set of parameters includes at least one of the originating node the destination node the start time for the trip and the set of preferences.

The application server transmits the request to the public transportation system server depicted by message . The application server transmits the request along with the first set of parameters to receive the available public transportation sub trips between the originating node and the destination node. The public transportation system server extracts the first set of parameters from the message . Based on the first set of parameters the public transportation system server determines the available public transportation sub trips between the originating node and the destination node.

The application server receives the available public transportation sub trips between the originating node and the destination node depicted by message . Based on the received available public transportation sub trips the application server determines a plurality of intermediate nodes between the originating node and the destination node. Further the application server determines a set of nodes based on the originating node the destination node and the plurality of intermediate nodes. Thereafter the application server sorts the set of nodes in increasing order of distance from the originating node.

As an example the application server receives following three available public transportation sub trips between the originating node o and the destination node d 

In such a scenario the application server determines that the plurality of intermediate nodes includes node A node B and Node C. In an embodiment list of the plurality of intermediate nodes may be pruned based on the maximum deviation of distance from shortest distance between the originating node o and the destination node d provided by the user. Further illustrations of such scenario have been discussed in conjunction with and . It will be understood by a person skilled in the art that the determination of the plurality of intermediate nodes should not be restricted to above disclosed method i.e. through public transportation sub trips . Other known techniques for determining the nodes on a geographical map may also be utilized for determining the plurality of intermediate nodes without limiting the scope of the disclosure.

In an embodiment the application server may query the database server to determine the available public transportation sub trips. Further details about this scenario have been discussed in conjunction with .

The application server queries the private transportation system server depicted by message . The application server queries the private transportation system server to determine the private transportation sub trips between a first node from the sorted set of nodes and a second node from the sorted set of nodes. In an embodiment the second node has greater distance from the originating node than the first node. The private transportation system server determines the available private vehicles at the required time intervals and based on such information the private transportation system server determines available private transportation sub trips between the first node and the second node. Further details and illustrations about the determination of the private transportation sub trip have been discussed in conjunction with the .

The application server receives the available private transportation sub trips between the first node and the second node depicted by message . In an embodiment the application server receives all the private transportation sub trips between the first node and the second node from the private transportation system server .

In an alternate embodiment application server may determine the private transportation sub trips between the first node and the second node by querying the database server . Further details about this scenario have been discussed in conjunction with .

In an embodiment the application server determines at least one public transportation sub trip that complements the private transportation sub trip between the first node and the second node. That is the application server determines the at least one public transportations sub trip such that the at least one public transportations sub trip and the private transportation sub trip completes the path between the originating node and the destination node. Further details about the determination of the one or more routes between the originating node and the destination node have been discussed in conjunction with the .

The application server transmits a request to congestion monitoring system server depicted by message . The application server transmits the details e.g. nodes details timing details etc. of the at least one public transportation sub trip and the private transportation sub trip to the congestion monitoring system server for receiving congestion levels at different nodes. The congestion monitoring system server may determine the congestion levels on different nodes received from the application server . Further the congestion monitoring system server may determine the congestion levels at the timing details received from the application server .

In an alternate embodiment the application server may query the database server to receive the information pertaining to the congestion levels on different nodes.

The application server receives the congestion levels from the congestion monitoring system server depicted by the message . The application server may utilize the received congestion levels to prune the list of the one or more routes determined between the originating node and the destination node. Further details and illustration of the pruning of the one or more routes have been provided in conjunction with .

The application server transmits the request to carbon footprint calculator depicted by message . The application server transmits the details e.g. nodes details timing details etc. of the at least one public transportation sub trip and the private transportation sub trip to the carbon footprint calculator for receiving the carbon emission levels at different nodes. The carbon footprint calculator determines the carbon emission levels at the different nodes. Further the carbon footprint calculator determines the carbon emission levels at the time intervals included in message received from the application server .

The application server receives the carbon emission levels from the carbon footprint calculator depicted by message . The application server may utilize the received carbon emission levels to prune the list of the one or more routes determined between the originating node and the destination node.

In an embodiment the application server may utilize the received congestion levels and the carbon emission levels to determine the trip scores for the different routes determined between the originating node and the destination node. Based on the trip score the application server may rank the one or more routes. Further details about the ranking of the routes have been discussed in conjunction with .

The application server transmits the response of the user s request depicted by message . In an embodiment the application server presents the ranked one or more routes on the display device associated with the user computing device . In an alternate embodiment the application server may present the ranked one or more routes on the user interface accessed over the network .

The processor is coupled to the memory and the transceiver . The processor includes suitable logic circuitry and or interfaces that are operable to execute one or more instructions stored in the memory to perform predetermined operations. The memory may be operable to store the one or more instructions. The processor may be implemented using one or more processor technologies known in the art. Examples of the processor include but are not limited to an X86 processor a RISC processor an ASIC processor a CISC processor or any other processor.

The memory stores a set of instructions and data. Some of the commonly known memory implementations include but are not limited to a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a hard disk drive HDD and a secure digital SD card. Further the memory includes the one or more instructions that are executable by the processor to perform specific operations. It would be apparent to a person having ordinary skill in the art that the one or more instructions stored in the memory enables the hardware of the application server to perform the predetermined operation.

The transceiver transmits and receives messages and data to from various components of the system environment . Examples of the transceiver may include but are not limited to an antenna an Ethernet port a USB port or any other port that can be configured to receive and transmit data. The transceiver transmits and receives data messages in accordance with the various communication protocols such as TCP IP UDP and 2G 3G or 4G communication protocols. Operation of the application server has been described in conjunction with .

At step a request is received for determining the one or more routes between the originating node and the destination node. The processor may receive the request. In an embodiment a user may access the application server e.g. through the client application or the web interface to provide the first set of parameters. The first set of parameters may include at least one of the originating node for the trip the destination node for the trip the start time for the trip or the set of preferences. The set of preferences may include ridesharing constraints tolerance constraints and route constraints. Through the ridesharing constraints the user may select the preferences pertaining to the one or more co passengers or pertaining to the type of the private vehicle. For example the user may specify the make e.g. Sedan or Hatchback of the private vehicle that needs to be ensured while determining the private transportation sub trip. Similarly other preferences in the ridesharing constraints may include maximum number of co passengers in the private transportation sub trip acquaintance with the co passengers maximum deviation of distance from shortest distance between the originating node and the destination node or maximum deviation of time from the start time for the trip. In an embodiment the maximum deviation of distance from the shortest distance between the originating node and the destination node depicts the overhead distance from the shortest distance that the user may be ready to traverse. For example if the shortest distance between the originating node and the destination node is 10 KM through one of the routes and the maximum deviation of the distance specified by the user is 1 KM then only those routes that have distance between the originating node and the destination node less than or equal to 11 KM will be determined for the user. In a similar way if the user has specified maximum deviation of time as 10 minutes then only those vehicles that leave the originating node within 10 minutes early or after from the start time specified by the user.

In an embodiment through the tolerance constraints the user may select preferences pertaining to the relevancy level for various parameters such as carbon footprint on the trip monetary cost for the trip duration of the trip and the like. For example the user may select the relevancy levels for the carbon footprint the cost and the duration as does not matter most important and important respectively. The tolerance constraints may also include at least one of maximum number of hops in the trip maximum deviation from the originating node maximum deviation from the destination node maximum distance of walking sub trips or maximum waiting time in the trip.

In an embodiment through the route constraints the user may specify preferences pertaining to the one or more routes that will be determined by the processor . For example the user may specify that a particular node should be included excluded in the determined routes. Other preferences included in the route constraints may include at least one of inclusion of a route in the trip exclusion of a route in the trip travel mode of the trip e.g. public transportation only private transportation only or combination of public transportation and private transportation or a preferred time for the trip. Table 1 illustrates a first set of parameters received from the user 

It can be observed from Table 1 that the user may provide values for various preferences. For example the user wants to determine the one or more routes between the originating node i.e. o and the destination node i.e. d at a start time of 08 00 AM. The maximum deviation of distance from the shortest distance between o and d is 1 KM and maximum deviation of time from the start time i.e. 08 00 AM is 10 minutes. In a similar way values for the ridesharing constraints tolerance constraints and the route constraints are provided by the user as depicted in Table 1. It will be apparent to a person skilled in the art that the values depicted in Table 1 are for illustration purposes only and different values other than exemplified in Table 1 may be provided by the user while requesting for the determination of the one or more routes.

In an alternate embodiment the processor receives the first set of parameters through a traveler s portal installed on the user computing device . Illustration of the traveler s portal to provide the first set of parameters has been provided in conjunction with .

At step the plurality of intermediate nodes between the originating node i.e. o and the destination node i.e. d are determined. In an embodiment the processor determines the plurality of intermediate nodes e.g. I between the originating node and the destination node. In an embodiment the plurality of the intermediate nodes I are determined such that the sum of the distances from o to I and I to d is less than b times the shortest distance between o and d. In an embodiment the value of b may be provided by the user along with the set of preferences. In an embodiment the processor queries the database server to retrieve the information pertaining to the public transportation system that include the information about the path followed by the public vehicles between the originating node and the destination node. Based on the information retrieved from the database server the processor may determine the plurality of the intermediate nodes.

At step the set of nodes is determined. The processor determines the set of nodes based on the plurality of intermediate nodes between the originating node and the destination node as determined in the step . In an embodiment the set of nodes includes the originating node the destination node and the plurality of intermediate nodes.

At step the set of nodes is sorted based on distance from the originating node. In an embodiment the processor determines the distance of each of the intermediate node i.e. I from the originating node and sort the set of nodes based on increasing distance from the originating node. For example if the distance of node A node B and node C from the originating node i.e. o is 5 KM 2 KM 3 KM respectively then the processor may first determine the set of nodes in conjunction with the step as o node A node B node C and d. Subsequently the processor may sort the set of node to obtain o node B node C Node A and d.

At step the private transportation sub trip is determined between a first node from the set of nodes and a second node from the set of nodes. In an embodiment the second node has greater distance from the originating node than the first node. The processor may query the database server to retrieve the information pertaining to the private transportation system that includes the information pertaining to the availability of the private vehicles at different nodes in the set of nodes. Based on the retrieved information the processor may determine the private transportation sub trip between the first node and the second node. In an embodiment there are three possibilities for the determined private transportation sub trip 

At step the at least one public transportation sub trip is determined. In an embodiment the processor queries the database server to retrieve the information pertaining to the public transportation system that includes the availability of the public vehicles at different nodes in the set of nodes. Based on the retrieved information the processor determines the at least one public transportation sub trip. In an embodiment the at least one public transportation sub trip is determined such that the at least one public transportation sub trip complements the determined private transportation sub trip. That is the combination of the private transportation sub trip and the at least one public transportation sub trip completes the trip between the originating node and the destination node. In an embodiment corresponding to each of the three possibilities discussed in conjunction with the step the processor determines the at least one public transportation sub trip as described below 

In an embodiment the at least one public transportation sub trip may be traversed by one public vehicle e.g. a bus . In an alternate embodiment the at least one public transportation sub trip may be traversed by a combination of public vehicles e.g. one leg of the public transportation sub trip traversed by bus and other leg of the public transportation sub trip traversed by train . In a similar way the public transportation sub trip may include more than two legs without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Illustration of such a scenario has been discussed in conjunction with the .

At step the one or more routes are determined between the originating node and the destination node. The processor determines the one or more routes by combining the private transportation sub trip and the at least one public transportation sub trip. It will be apparent to a person skilled in the art that depending upon the different availabilities of the private transportation sub trips and the public transportation sub trips the processor may determine the different options for the one or more routes between the originating node and the destination node. In an embodiment considering the maximum distance of walking sub trip as provided by the user in conjunction with the step the processor may append the walking sub trip in the one or more routes.

At step a trip score corresponding to each of the one or more routes is determined. Prior to determining the trip score the processor determines the one or more routes as described in conjunction with . Thereafter the processor determines the trip score based on the set of preferences provided by the user. For example if the user provides the relevancy levels for cost duration and carbon footprint as most important important and does not matter respectively then the processor may translate these relevancy levels to weights as 1.0 0.5 and 0 respectively. It will be understood by a person skilled in the art that these weights are for illustrations purposes only and other criteria may also be utilized for translating the relevancy levels to weights. Subsequently the processor may consider a weighted sum of these different relevancy levels while determining the trip score. For example the processor may utilize below mentioned equations for determining the trip score associated with each of the routes 1 2 where 

In an embodiment prior to determining the trip score for each of the one or more routes the processor determines whether any of the determined one or more routes may be pruned removed based on the set of preferences. For example a route from the one or more routes includes a node that the user had opted to exclude in the set of preferences the processor may remove that route before determining the trip score. In a similar way other parameters in the set of preferences as disclosed above may be utilized to prune remove the list of determined one or more routes.

At step the one or more routes are ranked. The processor ranks the one or more routes based on the trip score determined in conjunction with the step . In an embodiment the processor ranks the one or more routes in decreasing order of the trip score. That is the route with the highest value of the trip score is ranked highest and the route with lowest value of the trip score is ranked lowest.

At step the one or more ranked routes are presented to the user. In an embodiment the processor may transmit the one or more routes to the user computing device . Subsequently a display device associated with the user computing device may present the one or more routes to the user. In an alternate embodiment the one or more ranked routes are presented on the user interface accessed on the application server .

At step a selection of a route from the one or more presented routes is received. In an embodiment the user may select the route based on his her convenience using the user computing device . The processor may receive the selection through the transceiver .

At step a booking status for the private transportation sub trip is determined. As discussed in conjunction with the the one or more routes include the private transportation sub trip. The processor determines the booking status of the private transportation sub trip. In an embodiment for determining the booking status the processor may query the private transportation system server . The private transportation system server may reply to the processor based on the availability of the private vehicles at the required time. In an alternate embodiment the booking status may be determined based on the updated database server that includes latest information pertaining to the availabilities of the private vehicles as disclosed in conjunction with .

In an alternate embodiment when the private transportation sub trip corresponds to a ride sharing option the processor may check the availability of the car bike owner to check the availability of the ride sharing. In an embodiment the details about the ride sharing i.e. ridesharing constraints may be provided by the users through the traveler s portal and the processor may utilize this information to determine the one or more routes. Subsequently the processor may determine the availability of the car bike owner by notifying the respective owner. The notification may be through different means such as short messaging service SMS email voice call and the like. Further the notification may include the details of the travelers e.g. name address contact details employer s name etc. Based on the received notification the owner may reply with a confirmation or rejection to share the ride with the traveler.

At step it is determined whether the booking is available for the private vehicle. In case if the booking is available step is performed else step is performed.

At step the user is confirmed about the booking status. The processor confirms the user about the booking status on the display device associated with the user computing device . In an alternate embodiment the processor may confirm the user on the user interface accessed on the application server .

At step the user is prompted to select an alternative route from the one or more presented routes. That is if the processor determines that the private vehicle is not available as required in the private transportation sub trip then the user may be prompted to select an alternative route from the one or more presented routes. It will be apparent to a person skilled in the art that the steps to may be repeated for the alternative route selected by the user. In an embodiment if the booking of the private vehicle fails for a pre determined number of times then the failure of the booking for the pre determined number of times may be communicated to the user and trip planning request from the user may be terminated.

The submit button may be utilized by the user to start the trip planning. In an embodiment the user may press the submit button to enable the buttons that may be utilized by the user to indicate the types of transportations to be considered in determining the one or more routes. For example the user may press the button if he she wants that both public transportation and private transportation need to be included in the routes. Similarly the button may be utilized to indicate that only public transportation should be included in the routes and the button may be utilized to indicate that only private transportation should be included in the routes. On pressing different submit buttons from the submit buttons the processor may present different options to receive further inputs from the user.

The first input region indicates different options presented to the user when the user selects the button . It will be apparent to a person skilled in the art different options may be presented to the user if the user selects different submit buttons i.e. and . Further it will be understood that options shown in the first input region are for illustration purpose only and other options than exemplified may be added without departing from the scope of the disclosure. It can be observed from the first input region that the user can provide details such as availability of his her car readiness for ride sharing number of seats available acquaintance with the commuters i.e. known unknown originating node destination node start time for the trip relevancy levels for the carbon footprint duration and the cost tracking of the user and the phone number of an acquaintance. Details about these inputs have already been discussed in conjunction with . It will be apparent to a person skilled in the art that some of the inputs required in the first input region are used for determining the routes for the user e.g. the originating node the destination node the start time etc. whereas some of the input are used for providing the availability of the private vehicle associated with the user e.g. readiness for sharing number of seats to share etc. . In an embodiment the tracking of the user may be selected by the user for trip security purpose. In such a scenario the user may provide the contact details e.g. phone number of an acquaintance with whom the tracked information may be shared e.g. through GPS coordinates . In an alternate embodiment the processor may provide the tracked information to the congestion monitoring system server which may utilize the information to determine congestion levels on different nodes on the routes.

The user may press the submit button to start the determination of the routes by the processor . As disclosed above the processor may utilize inputs provided by the user through the traveler s portal to determine and to rank the one or routes between the originating node and the destination node.

The button may be utilized by the user to cancel the inputs provided in the first input region . For example the user may wish to change the inputs or may decide to provide the inputs later. In such a scenario the user may use the submit button .

The submit buttons may be utilized by the public private transportation system to provide edit various details pertaining to the vehicle s availability. For example the submit button may be utilized to view already added paths of the public private vehicles submit button may be utilized to add a new path for the public private vehicles submit button may be utilized to edit the added paths and submit button may be utilized to delete the added paths.

The second input region depicts an input area that can be used by the respective transportation system to add the details of the paths followed by the vehicles. It will be apparent to a person skilled in the art that different options may be presented if different submit buttons i.e. and are selected. Further it will be understood that options shown in the second input region are for illustration purposes only and other options than exemplified may be added without departing from the scope of the disclosure. It can be observed from the second input region that various types of the details may be provided by the transportation systems for example mode of the vehicle e.g. Taxi Bus Train Boat number of the vehicles available on paths options for uploading the paths through links CSV sheet and options for real time tracking. In an embodiment the transportation systems may provide the paths along with other details e.g. location coordinates vehicles details etc. using web links. In such a scenario the information of the transportation system may be downloaded to the application server through the provided web link. In an embodiment the transportation systems may provide the web link for the real time tracking of the vehicles of different paths.

The button may be utilized for submitting different types of details as disclosed above. For example post providing different types of the details respective transportation systems may utilize the submit button to submit the details.

The submit button may be utilized to cancel the inputs provided in the second input region e.g. to change the inputs or to provide the inputs later .

In accordance with the step a request from the user is received. In an embodiment the user wants to plan the trip between the node i.e. the originating node and the node i.e. the destination node . Further the user provides the start time and the set of preferences in the request. Further details about the first set of parameters and the set of preferences have been discussed in conjunction with .

In accordance with the step the processor determines the plurality of the intermediate nodes between the originating node i.e. the node and the destination node i.e. the node . As discussed in conjunction with the the processor determines the plurality of intermediate nodes I such that the sum of the distance from the node to I and I to is less than b times the shortest distance between the node and the node . In an embodiment considering the value of the parameter b the processor determines that the nodes the node the node the node the node and the node are such that the sum of the distance from to any of these nodes and the distance from that node to the node is less than b times the shortest distance between and

In accordance with the step a set of nodes is determined. The processor determines the set of nodes by combining the node the node and the plurality of intermediate nodes. That is the processor determines the set of nodes as the node the node the node the node the node the node the node the node and the node

In accordance with the step the processor sorts the set of nodes based on the distance from the node . In an embodiment the processor sorts the set of nodes based on the increasing distance from the node . In an embodiment the processor determines the sorted set of nodes as the node the node the node the node the node the node the node the node and the node

In accordance with the step the processor determines the private transportation sub trip. The processor queries the transportation database hosted on the database server to determine the private transportation sub trip. In an embodiment based on the information of the private vehicle s availability the processor determines that the private vehicles are available between the node and the node between the node and the node and between the node and the node . In an embodiment these three private transportation sub trips between the nodes are available through car pooling. It will be apparent to a person skilled in the art that at other nodes from the set of nodes private vehicles may be available but at different time intervals than specified by the user in the set of preferences. Thus the processor does not consider such private vehicles while determining the private transportation sub trip. Further the processor determines that the distance between the node and the node may be traversed through the feet i.e. walking sub trip and the distance between the node and the node is less than the maximum distance traversable through walking sub trips as provided in the set of preferences .

It will be apparent to a person skilled in the art that the processor may also query the private transportation system server to determine the private transportation sub trips.

In accordance with the step the processor determines the at least one public transportation sub trip. The processor queries the database server to retrieve the information pertaining to the public transportation system and find the at least one public transportation sub trip such that the combination of the private transportation sub trip and the at least one public transportation sub trip completes the trip between the node and the node . It will be apparent to a person skilled in the art that since the distance between the node and the node is also traversable through the walking sub trip the processor may include the walking sub trip between the node and the node if public transportation is not available between the node and the node

Further it will be apparent that the processor may determine the at least one public transportation sub trip by querying the public transportation system server without limiting the scope of the invention.

In an embodiment corresponding to the three private transportation sub trips i.e. between the node and the node between the node and the node and between the node and the node the processor determines the public transportation sub trips as 

In an embodiment all of the public transportation sub trips as illustrated above are available through public vehicle bus .

In accordance with the step the one or more routes are determined. The processor determines the one or more routes by combining the private transportation sub trip and the public transportation sub trips as disclosed in conjunction with the . Further the processor includes the walking sub trip in the one or more routes. In an embodiment corresponding to the above illustrations of the determined public transportation sub trips and the private transportation sub trip the processor determines the one or more routes between the node and the node as 

As disclosed above the distance between the node the node between the node and the node and between the node and the node are traversed through the private vehicle i.e. through the car pooling whereas distance between the other nodes are traversed through the public vehicle i.e. the bus . Further the distance between the node and the node is traversed through the feet. It will be apparent to a person skilled in the art that if the processor determines that the distance between the node and the node may also be traversed through the public vehicle the processor may also include that public transportation sub trip while determining the one or more routes.

In accordance with the step the processor determines the trip score for each of the routes. As disclosed in conjunction with the step prior to determining the trip score the processor may determine whether a route may be removed pruned from the list of determined one or more routes based on the set of preferences. In an embodiment the user specifies that the node should not be included in the planned trip between the node and the node . In such a scenario the processor may not consider the route 4 as determined above . For the remaining three routes i.e. the route 1 the route 2 and the route 3 the processor determines the trip score. In an embodiment the trip score determine for the three routes is illustrated in Table 2 

It can be observed from Table 2 the route 2 depicted by route has maximum trip score and the route 3 depicted by route has the minimum trip score.

In accordance with the step the one or more routes are ranked. As disclosed in conjunction with the step the one or more routes may be ranked based on the trip score. In an embodiment the processor ranks the one or more routes and determines the ranked routes as 

In accordance with the step the ranked routes are presented to the user. The routes may be presented on the display device associated with the user computing device . As can be observed from the map diagram the route depicts that the distance between the node and the node is traversed through the bus the distance between the node and the node is also traversed through the bus and the distance between the node and the node is traversed through the pooled car. In a similar way the route depicts that the distance between the node and the node is traversed by the bus the distance between the node and the node is traversed by the pooled car the distance between the node and the node is traversed by the feet and the distance between the node and the node is traversed by the bus. Similarly the route depicts that the distance between the node and the node is traversed by bus the distance between the node and the node is traversed by bus the distance between the node and the node is traversed by pooled car and the distance between the node and the node is traversed by bus. In addition it can be observed that details of the timings between various nodes and total duration of the trip is also included in the routes . For example as depicted in the route it is presented to the user that the node and the node can be traversed through bus and time for this leg is 20 minutes i.e. from 07 55 Hrs to 08 15 Hrs . Similarly it is presented that the total duration for the trip between the node and the node is 1 hours 20 minutes if traversed through the route

In accordance with the step a selection of a route from the routes is received from the user. In an embodiment the routes presented to the user are such that the user may select at least one route. For example the user may click e.g. using input mouse touch pad etc. on a route to select it. It will be apparent to a person skilled in the art that based on his her preferences the user may select a route from the routes 

In accordance with the step booking status of the private transportation sub trip included in the route selected by the user is determined. As discussed in conjunction with the step if the route selected by the user includes a private transportation sub trip the processor determines the booking status of the private transportation sub trip. Further as discussed in conjunction with the step if the private transportation sub trip is traversed through car pooling the processor may confirm the availability of the pooled car by notifying the owner of the car. For example if the user selects the route then the processor may determine the availability of the pooled car between the node and the node . In such a scenario the processor may notify the owner of the private vehicle along with the details of the user. Further the owner of the private vehicle may confirm reject the booking of the private vehicle based on the details of the user.

In accordance with the step it is determined whether the booking for the private transportation is available. In case the booking of the private transportation is available the step is performed else the step is performed as discussed in conjunction with the .

In accordance with the step the user is confirmed about the booking. In an embodiment when the processor determines that the booking of the private transportation sub trip is available the processor may confirm the user.

In accordance with the step the user may be prompted to select an alternative route. As discussed in conjunction with the if the processor determines that the booking for the private transportation sub trip is not available the processor may prompt the user to select an alternative route. For example if the processor determines that the pooled car between the node and the node is not available then the processor may prompt the user to select an alternative route from the routes . Further details about this scenario have already been described in conjunction with the .

In an embodiment the application server may monitor real time data pertaining to the congestion levels at different nodes on the route selected by the user. In addition the application server may monitor the location e.g. through GPS of the user while the user is traversing on the route. Based on the monitored congestion levels and the location the processor may determine that the user may not be able to reach a node that is the part of the selected route. Such determination may be made by the processor by determining the predicted time to reach different nodes on the route based on the known techniques in the art. In such a scenario the application server may repeat the steps to to determine one or more updated routes from the location of the user to the destination node. Further a notification corresponding to the one or more updated routes may be transmitted to the user. Subsequently the user may select an alternative route to reach the destination node.

A person having ordinary skill in the art would understand that the scope of the disclosure is not limited to updating the routes based on the real time location of the user. In an embodiment the application server may determine the one or more updated routes based on the location of the public private vehicles that are included in the route selected by the user and the congestion levels at the different nodes to be traversed by those public private vehicles.

The disclosed embodiments encompass numerous advantages. With the economic growth transportation requirements are continuously increasing. However the continuous expansion of the public transportation systems to cater this increasing demand is not feasible due to infrastructure space and cost constraints. In addition fixed timetables and limited reach of the public transportation systems lead to people using the private vehicles for daily commutation. Increase use of private transportation has its associated disadvantages also. For example increase in the use of the private vehicles have led to increase in carbon emission levels increase traffic congestion and increased costs. The increased traffic congestion further leads to poor schedule adherence of the public transportation systems resulting again in less inclination for the public transportation systems. Services like car pooling have also not gained much popularity because of individuals preferences e.g. privacy security etc. . However the navigation system disclosed as above utilizes both transportation systems i.e. public and private while determining the routes for a trip. In this way individuals may select the routes that best cater to their requirements and preferences i.e. cost duration etc. . In addition by providing the set of preferences i.e. ridesharing constraints tolerance constraints and route constraints it is ensured that determined one or more routes are more relevant and appropriate for the users. For example as discussed users may specific the relevancy levels for various parameters e.g. carbon emission duration monetary cost congestion levels etc. and those relevancy levels are translated into weights for determining the trip score which further is utilized to rank the one or more routes.

The disclosed methods and systems as illustrated in the ongoing description or any of its components may be embodied in the form of a computer system. Typical examples of a computer system include a general purpose computer a programmed microprocessor a micro controller a peripheral integrated circuit element and other devices or arrangements of devices that are capable of implementing the steps that constitute the method of the disclosure.

The computer system comprises a computer an input device a display unit and the Internet. The computer further comprises a microprocessor. The microprocessor is connected to a communication bus. The computer also includes a memory. The memory may be Random Access Memory RAM or Read Only Memory ROM . The computer system further comprises a storage device which may be a hard disk drive or a removable storage drive such as a floppy disk drive optical disk drive and the like. The storage device may also be a means for loading computer programs or other instructions into the computer system. The computer system also includes a communication unit. The communication unit allows the computer to connect to other databases and the Internet through an input output I O interface allowing the transfer as well as reception of data from other sources. The communication unit may include a modem an Ethernet card or other similar devices which enable the computer system to connect to databases and networks such as LAN MAN WAN and the Internet. The computer system facilitates input from a user through input devices accessible to the system through an I O interface.

In order to process input data the computer system executes a set of instructions that are stored in one or more storage elements. The storage elements may also hold data or other information as desired. The storage element may be in the form of an information source or a physical memory element present in the processing machine.

The programmable or computer readable instructions may include various commands that instruct the processing machine to perform specific tasks such as steps that constitute the method of the disclosure. The systems and methods described can also be implemented using only software programming or using only hardware or by a varying combination of the two techniques. The disclosure is independent of the programming language and the operating system used in the computers. The instructions for the disclosure can be written in all programming languages including but not limited to C C Visual C and Visual Basic . Further the software may be in the form of a collection of separate programs a program module containing a larger program or a portion of a program module as discussed in the ongoing description. The software may also include modular programming in the form of object oriented programming. The processing of input data by the processing machine may be in response to user commands the results of previous processing or from a request made by another processing machine. The disclosure can also be implemented in various operating systems and platforms including but not limited to Unix DOS Android Symbian and Linux .

The programmable instructions can be stored and transmitted on a computer readable medium. The disclosure can also be embodied in a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium or with any product capable of implementing the above methods and systems or the numerous possible variations thereof.

Various embodiments of the methods and systems for determining one or more routes in a navigation system have been disclosed. However it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that modifications in addition to those described are possible without departing from the inventive concepts herein. The embodiments therefore are not restrictive except in the spirit of the disclosure. Moreover in interpreting the disclosure all terms should be understood in the broadest possible manner consistent with the context. In particular the terms comprises and comprising should be interpreted as referring to elements components or steps in a non exclusive manner indicating that the referenced elements components or steps may be present or utilized or combined with other elements components or steps that are not expressly referenced.

A person having ordinary skills in the art will appreciate that the system modules and sub modules have been illustrated and explained to serve as examples and should not be considered limiting in any manner. It will be further appreciated that the variants of the above disclosed system elements or modules and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be combined to create other different systems or applications.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that any of the aforementioned steps and or system modules may be suitably replaced reordered or removed and additional steps and or system modules may be inserted depending on the needs of a particular application. In addition the systems of the aforementioned embodiments may be implemented using a wide variety of suitable processes and system modules and is not limited to any particular computer hardware software middleware firmware microcode or the like.

It will be appreciated that variants of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be combined into many other different systems or applications. Presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may be subsequently made by those skilled in the art which are also intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

