---

title: Obtaining targeted services using a unique identification header (UIDH)
abstract: A system is configured to receive, from a user device, a request for content; obtain, based on receiving the request, an identifier for a subscriber associated with the system and a key; encode the identifier and the key to create a unique identifier; store the unique identifier in the request to create a modified request; provide the modified request to a content provider identified by the request; receive, from the content provider, the content and targeted content, the targeted content being associated with the unique identifier and conforming to an attribute of the subscriber; and provide, to the user device, the content and the targeted content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09264430&OS=09264430&RS=09264430
owner: Cellco Partnership
number: 09264430
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140908
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 477 539 filed May 22 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 832 436 which is incorporated herein by reference.

Service provider networks transport network traffic associated with a variety of services applications and content. Such networks transport more and more traffic between user devices and content providers which enables the services applications and content to be transported by the content providers and or received by user devices. Content providers however may transmit services applications and or content that subscribers associated with the user devices cannot use and or do not desire to receive. In efforts to remedy this the content providers may provide services applications and or content that are targeted to the subscribers. The service provider networks however may not permit the content providers to access information associated with the subscribers due to security concerns such as protecting identities of the subscribers and or safeguarding confidential information associated with the subscribers. The content providers may thus not be able to provided targeted services applications and or content that the subscribers can use and or that the subscribers desire to receive.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

Systems and or methods described herein may enable a content distribution system CDS to provide content that is targeted hereinafter referred to as targeted content to a subscriber associated with a network while obfuscating the identity of the subscriber. The CDS may generate a unique identification header UIDH by encoding an identifier associated with the subscriber and or a key that is valid for a period of time. The CDS may also or alternatively identify attributes associated with the subscriber and may associate the UIDH with targeted content e.g. advertising content etc. that corresponds to the attributes. The CDS may insert the UIDH into a request for content received from a user device being used by the subscriber to create a modified request. The CDS may provide the modified request to a content provider. Providing the modified request to the content provider may enable the content provider to identify targeted content associated with the UIDH that conforms to one or more of the attributes without knowing the identity of the subscriber.

Additionally or alternatively the UIDH may be used by the CDS to provide an authentication service to a content provider. For example the CDS may receive from a content provider a request to authenticate an attribute of a subscriber with which the content provider is communicating. The request may include a UIDH and a subscriber attribute to be authenticated e.g. a subscriber identity a billing address payment information etc. . The CDS may receive the request and may use the UIDH to obtain an attribute of the subscriber with which the UIDH is associated. The CDS may authenticate the subscriber attribute when the attribute matches the subscriber attribute obtained from the request.

The term packet as used herein is intended to be broadly construed to include a frame a datagram a packet or a cell a fragment of a frame a fragment of a datagram a fragment of a packet or a fragment of a cell or another type arrangement or packaging of data.

Also in some implementations one or more of the devices of environment may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another one or more of the devices of environment . Systems devices and or networks of environment may interconnect via wired connections wireless connections or a combination of wired and wireless connections.

User device may include any computation and communication device that is capable of communicating via service provider network . For example user device may include a radiotelephone a personal communications system PCS terminal e.g. that may combine a cellular radiotelephone with data processing and data communications capabilities a personal digital assistant PDA e.g. that can include a radiotelephone a pager Internet intranet access etc. a laptop computer a personal computer tablet computer a landline telephone a set top box STB a television a camera a personal gaming system or another type of computation and communication device. The description to follow will generally refer to user device as a wireless mobile communication device. The description is not limited however to a wireless mobile communication device and may equally apply to other types of user devices.

PGW may include one or more network devices or other types of computation and communication devices that gather process search store and or provide information in a manner described herein. For example PGW may include a gateway a router a switch a firewall a network interface card NIC a hub a bridge a proxy server an optical add drop multiplexer OADM or some other type of device e.g. a home agent HA that processes and or transfers traffic e.g. packets . In one example implementation PGW may include a device that aggregates traffic received from one or more user devices and sends the aggregated traffic to CDS . Alternatively or additionally PGW may receive traffic from CDS and may send the traffic toward user device . PGW may perform a network address translation NAT operation on user device when a request to communicate with network is received from user device . Additionally or alternatively PGW may obtain from the request information associated with a subscriber of service provider network and may communicate with HSS AAA to authenticate the subscriber based on the information associated with the subscriber. PGW may generate NAT bindings as a result of the NAT operation and may transmit as session information information associated with NAT bindings and or the information associated with the subscriber.

CDS may include one or more computation and communication devices that gather process search store and or provide information in a manner described herein. For example CDS may receive the request for content and or the session information and may generate a UIDH based on the information associated with the subscriber obtained from the session information. CDS may modify the request for content by inserting the UIDH into a packet associated with the request e.g. into a packet header trailer payload etc. . CDS may transmit the modified request to content provider which may enable content provider to use the UIDH to provide targeted content to user device being used by the subscriber with which the UIDH is associated. Additionally or alternatively CDS may associate the UIDH with targeted content that corresponds to attributes of the subscriber. CDS may also or alternatively provide subscriber authentication services based on a UIDH received from content provider . CDS will be described in greater detail below with respect to .

HSS AAA may include one or more server devices or other types of computation and communication devices that gather process search store and or provide information in a manner described herein. For example HSS AAA may manage and or store in a memory associated with HSS AAA a subscriber profile of a subscriber associated with user device . The subscriber profile may identify services for which the subscriber has subscribed applications used by the subscriber a usage history subscriber preferences etc. The subscriber profile may also or alternatively identify whether the subscriber has authorized e.g. opt in or not authorized e.g. opt out some or all of the subscriber profile to be used to obtain targeted content. Additionally or alternatively HSS AAA may perform AAA operations when registering user device with service provider network . Additionally or alternatively HSS AAA may authenticate a subscriber associated with service provider network based on information associated with the subscriber received from PGW and or CDS .

Content provider may include one or more server devices or other types of computation and communication devices that provide any type or form of content. For example content provider may provide video audio images advertising content web pages text data and or some combination thereof. Additionally or alternatively content provider may provide applications and or services such as games scripts messaging services banking services etc. Content provider may communicate with a particular user device being used by a subscriber of service provider network to perform electronic transactions to provide a good and or service in exchange for payment information from user device . Content provider may receive from ad provider targeted content such as advertising content etc. that corresponds to a UIDH and may provide via the particular user device the targeted content and or other content to the subscriber with which the UIDH is associated.

Ad provider may include one or more server devices or other types of computation and communication devices that provide advertising content. Ad provider may for example maintain targeted content such as advertising content etc. that corresponds to UIDHs associated with subscribers. Particular advertising content corresponding to one or more UIDHs may for example conform to attributes of the subscribers with which the UIDHs are associated. Ad provider may also or alternatively provide advertising content to content provider that corresponds to a UIDH received from content provider .

Service provider network may include one or more wired and or wireless networks via which user devices communicate and or receive content. For example service provider network may include a cellular network the Public Land Mobile Network PLMN a second generation 2G network a third generation 3G network a fourth generation 4G network e.g. a long term evolution LTE network a fifth generation 5G network and or another network. Additionally or alternatively service provider network may include a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN an ad hoc network an intranet a fiber optic based network and or a combination of these or other types of networks.

Network may include one or more wired and or wireless networks. For example network may include a cellular network the PLMN a 2G network a 3G network a 4G network e.g. a LTE network a 5G network and or another network. Additionally or alternatively network may include a WAN a MAN a telephone network e.g. the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN an ad hoc network an intranet the Internet a fiber optic based network and or a combination of these or other types of networks.

Also in some implementations one or more of the components of CDS may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another one or more of the components of CDS . Components of CDS may interconnect via wired connections wireless connections or a combination of wired and wireless connections. Additionally or alternatively the components and or devices described below may be implemented based on a variety of different technologies. standards etc. such as Evolution Data Optimized EVDO standards Third Generate Partnership Project 3GPP standards e.g. as 3G 4G LTE etc. devices fast low latency access with seamless handoff FLASH standards etc.

CMDS may include one or more devices to process requests for content. For example CMDS may monitor and or examine flows of packets e.g. packet headers trailers payloads etc. received from PGW . CMDS may for example use deep packet inspection DPI techniques and or some other inspection technique to identify a request for content received from user device that is destined for content provider . CMDS may also or alternatively receive session information from user device that includes information associated with NAT bindings for user device and or information associated with a subscriber to service provider network that is using user device to obtain the content CMDS may obtain from the session information an identifier associated with the subscriber e.g. a mobile directory number MDN and or some other identifier associated with the subscriber . CMDS may provide a request for a key to key manager and may receive the key hereinafter referred to in some instances as a salt from key manager .

CMDS may also or alternatively use a mechanism to generate the UIDH based on the key and or the identifier. The mechanism may for example correspond to a cryptographic hash function and or some other mathematical function. Additionally or alternatively the mechanism may correspond to a one way cryptographic hash function e.g. a hash based message authentication code HMAC secure hash algorithm SHA HMAC SHA 256 etc. and or some other mathematical function. CMDS may insert the UIDH into the request for content to create a modified request. CMDS may also or alternatively transmit the modified request to content provider . In one example the request may correspond to a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP request and CMDS may insert the UIDH into a field within the HTTP request e.g. in a header a trailer a payload etc. to create the modified request. The UIDH may be valid for a period of time during which the key is valid.

Key manager may include one or more devices that generate a key to be used to generate a UIDH. For example key manager may receive from CMDS ad controller and or SPC a request for a key associated with user device . The request may in one example include the identifier associated with the subscriber. Additionally or alternatively key manager may obtain and or generate the key that includes a string of alphanumeric characters and or symbols. Key manager may for example generate and or obtain a random value and may generate the key based on the random value e.g. using a mechanism such as a cryptographic hash function and or some other mathematical function etc . In one example a key may be valid for a period of time e.g. 1 hour 12 hours 1 day 3 days 7 days 14 days etc. after which the key is to expire. The period of time may be predetermined by key manager and or an operator of CDS and or key manager . Key manager may provide the key to CMDS ad controller and or SPC . Key manager may also or alternatively provide a notification to CMDS ad controller and or SPC when the key has expired. In one example key manager may generate the UIDH based on the identifier e.g. the MDN etc. and or the key and may provide the UIDH to CMDS .

Ad controller may include one or more devices that identify content that can be targeted to the subscriber. For example ad controller may obtain the UIDH and or the identifier associated with the subscriber and may use the identifier to access HSS AAA to obtain a subscriber profile associated with a subscriber to service provider network . Ad controller may obtain one or more attributes of the subscriber from the subscriber profile and may associated with attributes with the UIDH and or the identifier. Ad controller may store in storage the attributes the UIDH and or the identifier. Ad controller may also or alternatively identify criteria associated with content that identifies attributes of the subscriber to which the content is to be targeted e.g. based on a geographical area a gender a genre of content a language a usage history a purchase history parental controls etc. . Ad controller may determine whether the attributes of the subscriber satisfy the criteria associated with the content. Ad controller may associate within storage an identifier associated with the content e.g. a content title a content name a content identifier etc. with the UIDH and or the identifier associated with the subscriber when the attributes satisfy the criteria.

Storage may include one or more devices that store attributes identifiers and or UIDHs associated with subscribers and or information that identifies targeted content associated with the UIDH. Storage may also or alternatively store session information requests for content e.g. received from user devices being used by subscribers etc.

Ad exchange server may include one or more devices that process requests from content provider for targeted content. For example ad exchange server may receive a request from content provider for targeted content e.g. targeted advertising content associated with a UIDH included within the request. Ad exchange server may retrieve from storage information associated with targeted content that corresponds to the received UIDH. Ad exchange server may provide to content provider information that identifies from which ad provider the targeted content can be retrieved. Additionally or alternatively ad exchange server may instruct ad provider to provide the targeted content to content provider .

SPC may include one or more devices that process requests for subscriber authentication services. For example SPC may register content provider application developers etc. to receive subscriber authentication services in exchange for a fee and or other value. SPC may for example provide an application programming interface API e.g. an open computing security group OCSG API and or some other API that enables content providers to communicate with SPC or other components associated with CDS .

SPC may receive from content provider a request to authenticate an attribute associated with a subscriber e.g. an identity a MDN a billing address payment information etc. . SPC may obtain a UIDH from the request and may determine whether the UIDH is valid e.g. has not expired etc. . When the UIDH is valid SPC may also or alternatively perform a look up operation to identify a UIDH stored within storage that matches the received UIDH. SPC may retrieve from storage an attribute associated with the stored UIDH. SPC may also or alternatively determine whether the retrieved attribute matches an attribute obtained from the message. SPC may provide to content provider a notification that the subscriber is authenticated when the retrieved attribute matches the attribute obtained from the request. SPC may provide to content provider a notification that the subscriber cannot be authenticated when the retrieved attribute does not match the attribute obtained from the request.

Bus may include a path that permits communication among the components of device . Processor may include one or more processors microprocessors or processing logic that may interpret and execute instructions. Memory may include any type of dynamic storage device that may store information and instructions for execution by processor and or any type of non volatile storage device that may store information for use by processor .

Input component may include a mechanism that permits a user to input information to device such as a keyboard a keypad a button a switch etc. Output component may include a mechanism that outputs information to the user such as a display a speaker one or more light emitting diodes LEDs etc. Communication interface may include any transceiver like mechanism that enables device to communicate with other devices and or systems via wireless communications e.g. radio frequency infrared and or visual optics etc. wired communications e.g. conductive wire twisted pair cable coaxial cable transmission line fiber optic cable and or waveguide etc. or a combination of wireless and wired communications. For example communication interface may include mechanisms for communicating with another device or system via a network such as service provider network and or network . In one implementation communication interface may be a logical component that includes input and output ports input and output systems and or other input and output components that facilitate the transmission of data to other devices.

Device may perform certain operations described herein. Device may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions contained in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a non transitory memory device. A memory device may include space within a single physical memory device or spread across multiple physical memory devices. The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device. The software instructions contained in memory may cause processor to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

User device ID field may store information associated with a particular user device . For example the information associated with the particular user device may include a device identifier e.g. an international mobile equipment identity IMEI an electronic serial number ESN a mobile equipment identifier MEID etc. an address e.g. an Internet protocol IP address a media access control MAC address etc. etc.

Subscriber information field may store information associated with a subscriber to service provider network . The information associated with the subscriber may for example include subscriber identifier e.g. a MDN a landline director number LDN a subscriber identity module SIM uniform resource identifier URI a mobile identification number MIN an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI a mobile subscriber integrated services digital network MSISDN identifier a national access identifier NAI etc. and or other information associated with the subscriber. The subscriber may use one or more user devices to communicate with service provider network . In one example the subscriber may use the particular user device to communicate with service provider network .

Internal IP address field may store an internal IP address associated with the particular user device . Port range field may store one or more port identifiers associated with the internal IP address. Public IP address field may store a unique public IP address associated with the particular user device that corresponds to a private IP address associated with the particular user device . Session time field may store information that identifies when information stored within data structure expires.

Message type field may store information that identifies a type of message. For example message type field may store information that indicates that a packet in which data structure is store is associated with a request for content e.g. an HTTP request . User agent field may store information that identifies a type of user device and or a browser executing on the user device from which the request was sent. Destination address field may store information that identifies content provider from which content is being requested. For example the information that identifies content provider may correspond to a uniform resource locator URL or some other network address associated with content provider . UIDH field may store a UIDH associated with a subscriber to service provider network . For example the request for content transmitted by user device may be modified by CDS when a UIDH is inserted and or stored in UIDH field of data structure .

UIDH field may store a UIDH associated with a subscriber that is generated by CDS when processing a request for content received from a particular user device . Expiration field may store information that identifies a time at which the UIDH expires. Subscriber information field may store information associated with the subscriber e.g. an identifier such as a MDN a LDN a SIM URI a MIN an IMSI a MSISDN a NAI etc. obtained from the request in a manner similar to that described above with respect to field of . Attribute field may store one or more subscriber attributes e.g. a geographical area a gender a preferred content genre a language a usage history a purchase history parental controls etc. of the subscriber. The subscriber attribute may for example be obtained by CDS from a subscriber profile based on the information associated with the subscriber.

By way of example CDS may receive from user device and via PGW a request for content. CDS may store in data structure an identifier associated with a subscriber e.g. MDN using user device and a UIDH e.g. UIDH that is generated based on the identifier e.g. as shown by ellipse . CDS may additionally or alternatively store information that identifies a time when the UIDH expires e.g. T and one or more attributes e.g. A of the subscriber e.g. as shown by ellipse . Additionally or alternatively CDS may process other requests and may store other information that is generated as a result of processing the other requests e.g. as shown by ellipse . The manner in which the requests are processed by CDS will be described in greater detail below with respect to .

As shown in process may include receiving a request for content and session information for a session associated with a user device block . For example user device may send a registration request to PGW . Registration request may include a request to access a network e.g. network information associated with user device e.g. a MAC address an ESN MEID IMEI etc. and or information associated with a subscriber e.g. a MDN a LDN a SIM URI a MIN an IMSI a MSISDN a NAI etc. that is using user device to communicate with service provider network . PGW may receive registration request and may perform a NAT operation.

In the description below the information associated with user device will be described as corresponding to the MDN for explanatory purposes. In other implementations the information associated with the subscriber may not be so limited. For example the information associated with the subscriber could correspond to the IMSI SIM URI a MIN MSISDN LDN NAI etc.

For example PGW may obtain from registration request the MDN. PGW may transmit the MDN to HSS AAA to authenticate the subscriber based on the MDN. When HSS AAA authenticates the subscriber PGW may also or alternatively identify an internal IP address and or a port range to be used by a service provider network e.g. service provider network . PGW may create a NAT binding associated with user device by assigning the internal IP address and or the port range to user device . Additionally or alternatively PGW may associate with the internal IP address and or the port range a unique public IP address to be used by a network other than the service provider network e.g. network . PGW may also or alternatively identify a time period e.g. a lease for which the internal IP address the public IP address and or the port range is to be used. Additionally or alternatively PGW may store as NAT bindings and in a memory associated with PGW information obtained as a result of the NAT operation. For example the NAT bindings may include the internal IP address the port range the public IP address the lease etc. PGW may transmit to CMDS session information . Session information may include the MDN and or the NAT bindings. In one example session information may be transmitted to CMDS in the form of a packet sometimes referred to as a pilot packet . CMDS may receive session information from PGW .

Additionally or alternatively PGW may receive from user device a content request . Content request may for example correspond to a HTTP request that identifies content being requested by a subscriber of user device and or an address e.g. a URL etc. associated with content provider from which the content is to be obtained. Content request may also or alternatively include a user agent field that identifies a type of user device and or an application e.g. a web browser etc. being used by user device to generate and or transmit content request . Additionally or alternatively PGW may obtain e.g. from a domain name server DNS a network address e.g. an IP address a MAC address etc. associated with content provider that corresponds to the URL included within content request . PGW may provide a request to CMDS that includes the network address and all or a portion of the information included within content request . CMDS may receive request from PGW .

As also shown in process may include obtaining an identifier associated with the subscriber from the session information block and associating the identifier with the request block . For example CMDS may monitor flows of traffic received from PGW by examining packets e.g. packet headers packet trailers payloads etc. included within the flows to identify session information and or request . CMDS may obtain from request information identifying the type of user device and or the application used to generate content request . CMDS may determine whether a UIDH is supported by the type of user device and or the application. CMDS may transmit a request for content to content provider when the UIDH is not supported by the type of user device and or the application.

Additionally or alternatively CMDS may obtain from the session information information that identifies the ports and or the MDN when the UIDH is supported by the type of user device and or the application. CMDS may based on the MDN communicate with HSS AAA to determine whether the subscriber associated with user device authorizes the subscriber profile to be used to obtain targeted content. CMDS may transmit a request for content to content provider when the subscriber does not authorize e.g. has opted out use of the subscriber profile. CMDS may also or alternatively associate the information identifying the ports the public IP address and or the MDN with request when the subscriber authorizes use of the subscriber profile.

As further shown in process may include generating a UIDH associated with the subscriber based on the identifier block . For example CMDS may provide key request to key manager . In one example key request may include the MDN. Key manager may receive key request and may generate and or obtain a random value on which a key is to be based. Key manager may for example and in a manner similar to that described above with respect to use a mechanism e.g. a cryptographic hash function and or some other mathematical function to generate key based on the random number. Key manager may also or alternatively identify a time at which key is generated that enables key manager to determine when key and or a UIDH that is based on key expires. Key manager may provide key to CMDS .

CMDS may receive key and use key to generate a UIDH associated with the subscriber. Additionally or alternatively CMDS may in a manner similar to that described above with respect to use a mechanism e.g. a cryptographic hash function and or some other mathematical function to generate the UIDH based on the MDN and or key . The UIDH may correspond to a string of alphanumeric characters and or symbols that is valid for a predetermined period of time e.g. 1 hour 12 hours 1 day 3 days 7 days 14 days etc. that is tracked by key manager . Additionally or alternatively key manager may use the MDN and or the key to generate the UIDH and may provide the UIDH to CMDS .

As yet further shown in process may include storing the UIDH in the request to create a modified request block and providing the modified request to a content provider . For example CMDS may store the UIDH in a field associated with request to create a modified request . CMDS may for example store the UIDH in a field associated with a header e.g. a HTTP header within request . Alternatively CMDS may store the UIDH in a trailer a payload and or some other part of request . CMDS may transmit modified request to content provider based on the network address associated with content provider included within request .

As still further shown in process may include receiving the content and targeted content based on the modified request block and providing the content and the targeted content to the user device block . For example content provider may receive modified request and may obtain the content identified by modified request . Additionally or alternatively content provider may obtain the UIDH from modified request . Content provider may also or alternatively provide a request to ad provider . Request may for example include the UIDH and or a request for targeted content associated with the UIDH.

Additionally or alternatively content provider may provide the UIDH to ad exchange server . Ad exchange server may based on the UIDH provide a notification to content provider that identifies from which ad provider the targeted content is to be obtained.

Ad provider may receive request and may determine that the UIDH obtained from request matches a UIDH that is stored in a memory associated with Ad server . Ad server may retrieve from the memory targeted content that corresponds to the stored UIDH and may provide targeted content to content provider . Content provider may receive targeted content and may combine the content with targeted content to create a response . Content provider may transmit as response the content and or targeted content to user device via CMDS and or PGW . User device may receive response and may display the content and or targeted content on user device .

As shown in process may include receiving a UIDH associated with subscriber block and obtaining information associated with the subscriber that corresponds to the UIDH block . For example ad controller may receive a UIDH associated with subscriber. Ad controller may for example receive the UIDH when CMDS generates the UIDH when processing a request for content received from user device . Ad controller may retrieve from storage a MDN associated with a subscriber that corresponds to the UIDH.

Additionally or alternatively ad controller may receive from CMDS the MDN when CMDS is processing a request for content received from user device . In this example ad controller may in a manner similar to that described above with respect to obtain a key from key manager with which to generate the UIDH.

As also shown in process may include obtaining subscriber attributes that correspond to the information associated with the user device block and obtaining criteria associated with targeted content block . For example ad controller may identify within storage subscriber attributes that correspond to the MDN. Additionally or alternatively when the subscriber attributes are not stored within storage ad controller may communicate with HSS AAA to access a subscriber profile that corresponds to the MDN. Ad controller may also or alternatively identify the subscriber attributes based on the subscriber profile. The subscriber attributes may for example identify a genre and or a language associated with the subscriber an address of the subscriber e.g. a shipping address a billing address etc. usage habits of the subscriber e.g. frequently visited websites time of the day when the subscriber accesses the Internet etc. a purchase history preferred content e.g. videos movies music etc. preferred content genres e.g. horror sports country music etc. parental controls e.g. exclude content with a restricted R rating etc. etc.

Additionally or alternatively ad controller may communicate with ad provider to obtain information associated with targeted content. The information associated with the targeted content may include an identifier associated with targeted content e.g. a content name title identifier etc. . The information associated with the targeted content may also include criteria that identifies a target audience of subscribers for which the targeted content is intended.

If the subscriber attributes satisfies the criteria block YES process may include associating the UIDH with the targeted content block . For example ad controller may determine whether one or more of the attributes satisfy one or more of the criteria associated with the targeted content. Ad controller may associate the UIDH with the targeted content when one or more of the attributes satisfy one or more of the criteria and may store in storage the UIDH and an identifier associated with the targeted content when the UIDH and the targeted content are associated.

Additionally or alternatively ad controller may associate a score with the targeted content based on an extent to which the subscriber attributes satisfy the criteria. A higher score may be associated with first targeted content than second targeted content when a first quantity of satisfied criteria of the first targeted content is greater than a second quantity of satisfied criteria of the second targeted content. Ad controller may store the score in storage together with the UIDH and or the identifier associated with the targeted content. The score may enable ad controller and or ad exchange server to select targeted content associated with UIDH with a highest score.

If the subscriber attributes do not satisfy the criteria block NO process may include not associating the UIDH with the targeted content block . For example ad controller may not associate the UIDH with the targeted content when none of the attributes satisfy the criteria. Additionally or alternatively ad controller may not associated the UIDH with the targeted content when a score associated with the targeted content is less than a threshold. Ad controller may also or alternatively not store the UIDH and the identifier associated with the targeted content when the UIDH and the targeted content are not associated.

As shown in process may include receiving a request for content and receiving session information for a session associated with a user device block and identifying a previously generated UIDH associated with a subscriber of the user device block . For example CDS may in a manner similar to that described above with respect to block of receive from user device and via PGW a request for content. CDS may also or alternatively receive from PGW a pilot packet that includes session information for a session associated with user device . CDS may in a manner similar to that described above with respect to block of obtain a MDN associated with a subscriber from the session information.

Additionally or alternatively CDS may determine whether a previously generated UIDH is associated with the MDN. For example CDS may determine whether the received MDN matches a MDN stored in storage . When the received MDN matches the stored MDN CDS may retrieve from storage a UIDH that corresponds to the stored MDN.

If the UIDH has expired block YES process may include generating a UIDH based on the identifier block . For example CDS may retrieve from storage and or key manager a period of time during which UIDH is valid. CDS may determine that the UIDH has expired when a current time is not within the period of time associated with the UIDH. CDS may also or alternatively use the MDN and or a key to generate a UIDH e.g. using a cryptographic hash function and or some other mathematical function associated with user device in a manner similar to that described above with respect to block of . Additionally or alternatively CDS may generate the UIDH when CDS determines that a previously generated UIDH based on the MDN is not stored within storage .

If the UIDH has not expired block NO or after generating the UIDH based on the identifier block process may include identifying a destination address associated with the request for content block . For example CDS may determine that the UIDH has not expired when the current time is within the period of time associated with the UIDH. When the UIDH has not expired and or after the UIDH has been generated CDS may obtain from the request for content e.g. from a header trailer etc. a destination address that corresponds to content provider from which the content is to be obtained.

Additionally or alternatively CDS may retrieve from storage a list e.g. a blacklist of content providers from which targeted content obtained using the UIDH is not to be received. The blacklist may include addresses e.g. URLs IP addresses MAC addresses etc. and or identifiers e.g. a business name a web site name etc. associated with blacklisted content providers . The blacklisted content providers may correspond to content providers that do not support the UIDH and or have not subscribed to CDS to use the UIDH.

If the destination address is blacklisted block YES process may include transmitting a request that does not include the UIDH block . For example CDS may determine whether the destination address matches an address within the blacklist. When the destination address matches an address within the blacklist CDS may determine that targeted content obtained using the UIDH is not to be received from content provider with which the destination address is associated. CDS may thus transmit a request for the content to content provider in a manner that does not include storing and or inserting the UIDH into the request. Transmitting the request that does not include the UIDH to content provider may enable content provider to provide the content to user device .

If the destination address is not blacklisted block NO process may include transmitting a request that includes the UIDH block . For example CDS may determine that the destination address does not match an address within the blacklist. When the destination address does not match an address within the blacklist CDS may determine that targeted content obtained using the UIDH is to be received from content provider with which the destination address is associated. Thus CDS may in a manner similar to that described above with respect to block of store the UIDH in the request to create a modified request. CDS may also or alternatively transmit the modified request for the content to content provider . Transmitting the modified request to content provider may enable content provider to obtain targeted content from ad provider and or to provide the content and or the targeted content to user device .

As shown in process may include receiving from a content provider a request for an authentication service block . For example user device may send a request to content provider . Request may in a manner similar to that described above with respect to include a UIDH based on a MDN associated with a subscriber that is using user device to communicate with content provider . Content provider may receive request and may determine that one or more attributes of the subscriber is to be authenticated. Content provider may transmit an authentication request to SPC . Content provider may in one example communicate with SPC via an API that enables content provider to communicate with SPC and or obtain access to the authentication service. The API may be provisioned for content provider based on a prior registration. SPC may receive authentication request from content provider .

Authentication request may for example include the UIDH obtained from request . Additionally or alternatively authentication request may include a first subscriber attribute that is to be authenticated such as a subscriber identify e.g. a subscriber name alias etc. a subscriber address e.g. a home address business address billing address etc. subscriber payment information e.g. credit card number expiration date etc. etc.

As also shown in process may include obtaining from the request a UIDH and a first subscriber attribute block and obtaining a second subscriber attribute associated with the UIDH block . For example SPC may obtain the UIDH from authentication request and may in a manner similar to that described above with respect to block of determine that the UIDH has not expired. SPC may also or alternatively obtain the first subscriber attribute from the request when the UIDH has not expired.

Additionally or alternatively SPC may perform a lookup operation to obtain an identifier with which the UIDH is associated. For example SPC may access storage to identify a UIDH that matches the UIDH obtained from authentication request . When the UIDH matches the stored UIDH SPC may also or alternatively identify a MDN that corresponds to the stored UIDH that is stored within storage . SPC may retrieve the MDN as identifier from storage . SPC may also or alternatively identify a second subscriber attribute stored within storage that corresponds to the MDN and may retrieve the second subscriber attribute as attribute from storage .

Additionally or alternatively SPC may communicate with HSS AAA to access a subscriber profile associated with the MDN. SPC may also or alternatively obtain the second subscriber attribute from the subscriber profile.

If the first subscriber attribute does not match the second subscriber attribute block NO process may include providing a notification that the subscriber attribute cannot be authenticated block . For example SPC may compare the first subscriber attribute to the second subscriber attribute to determine whether the first subscriber attribute matches the second subscriber attribute. When the first subscriber attribute does not match the second subscriber attribute SPC may transmit an authentication response to content provider indicating the first subscriber attribute cannot be authenticated. Content provider may receive authentication response and may transmit to user device a response indicating that request cannot be processed when the first subscriber attribute cannot be authenticated.

If the first subscriber attribute matches the second subscriber attribute block YES process may include providing a notification that the subscriber attribute is authenticated block . For example SPC may determine that the first subscriber attribute matches the second subscriber attribute. When the first subscriber attribute matches the second subscriber attribute SPC may transmit authentication response to content provider indicating the first subscriber attribute is authenticated. Content provider may receive authentication response and may transmit to user device response indicating that request can be processed when the first subscriber attribute is authenticated.

Systems and or methods described herein may enable a CDS to generate a UIDH that can be used to provide targeted content to a subscriber while obfuscating the identity of the subscriber. The CDS may provide a modified request that includes the UIDH to a content provider to enable the content provider to identify targeted content using the UIDH without knowing the identity of the subscriber. Additionally or alternatively the UIDH may be used by the CDS to provide an authentication service to a content provider. The CDS may receive an authentication request that includes an attribute and the UIDH. CDS may authenticate the subscriber when a subscriber attribute associated with the UIDH matches the attribute obtained from the request.

The foregoing description provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above implementations or may be acquired from practice of the embodiments.

While series of blocks have been described with regard to FIGS. and the order of the blocks may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel.

It will be apparent that systems and or methods as described above may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these systems and methods is not limiting of the embodiments. Thus the operation and behavior of the systems and or methods were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware can be designed to implement the systems and or methods based on the description herein.

Further certain portions described above may be implemented as a component that performs one or more functions. A component as used herein may include hardware such as a processor an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or a field programmable gate array FPGA or a combination of hardware and software e.g. a processor executing software .

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of the embodiments. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one other claim the disclosure of the embodiments includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the embodiments unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

