---

title: Method and apparatus for enforcing tiered geographical anonymity in a mobile device
abstract: A disclosed method of operation includes generating a first resolution geographic descriptor that identifies a first size geographic grid area. The first size geographic grid area includes a specific location identified by mobile device location data but does not identify the specific location. The method proceeds with adjusting the first resolution geographic descriptor to a second resolution geographic descriptor, by increasing or decreasing the resolution to correspondingly decrease or increase, respectively, the corresponding geographic grid area to a second size geographic grid area that includes the specific location. An information update is then sent to a server. The information update includes the second resolution geographic descriptor but does not provide the mobile device location data, in order to preserve the mobile device user's anonymity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09426776&OS=09426776&RS=09426776
owner: Google Technology Holdings LLC
number: 09426776
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140730
---
The present disclosure relates generally to mobile device location data and more particularly to methods and apparatuses that collect or obtain location data from mobile devices.

The capability of mobile devices to obtain location data using an internal Global Positioning System GPS chipset or some other means has become ubiquitous and also required in order to facilitate E911 services. Also ubiquitous are various commercial mobile device applications that make use of mobile device location data in order to provide services. Along with the benefits associated with location based services privacy concerns have arisen related to tracking of individual mobile device user locations.

Understandably because of such privacy concerns many mobile device users either decide not to use location based applications and services at all or adjust privacy settings so that no location data is provided by the mobile device to any applications or external systems rendering the applications useless. The nature of a mobile device as being mobile however lends itself greatly to the potential for feature and service optimization based on location changes and corresponding changes in various conditions. The prevention of access to mobile device location data by external systems is therefore detrimental to achieving and delivering optimal mobile device performance and features.

Briefly the disclosed embodiments determine various levels of location data abstraction in relation to population density of an area for the purpose of preserving mobile device user anonymity while collecting geotagged data. For example in densely populated urban areas the level of abstraction required may correspond to a city block. On the other hand in a lightly populated rural area an appropriate level of abstraction may be several square miles. The disclose embodiments also account for locations with transient population density such as office buildings or business areas and make use of time and day to decide appropriate abstraction levels. Therefore a multi level or tiered abstraction schema is obtained in the embodiments through use of appropriately determined geodescriptor resolutions. In an aspect of the embodiments among other advantages crowd sourced geotagged network data is collected and aggregated for use in optimizing mobile device performance for data delivery. Individual mobile device user anonymity is preserved in the various embodiments by applying the disclosed tiered location data abstraction techniques.

Accordingly one disclosed method of operation begins with generating a first resolution geographic descriptor that identifies a first size geographic grid area. The first size geographic grid area includes a specific location identified by mobile device location data but does not identify the specific location. The method proceeds with adjusting the first resolution geographic descriptor to a second resolution geographic descriptor by increasing or decreasing the resolution to correspondingly decrease or increase respectively the corresponding geographic grid area to a second size geographic grid area that includes the specific location. An information update is then sent to a server. The information update includes the second resolution geographic descriptor but does not provide the mobile device location data in order to preserve the mobile device user s anonymity.

The method may further include adjusting the first resolution geographic descriptor to the second resolution geographic descriptor to meet a minimum population density of mobile devices within the second size geographic grid area. In some embodiments the population density may be determined using historical population data. The method may further include determining that the mobile device population density within the second size geographic grid area is time dependent. In that case the method proceeds by adjusting the second resolution geographic descriptor to a third resolution geographic descriptor that identifies a third size geographic grid area. The third size geographic grid area includes the specific location but also meets a minimum population density of mobile devices within the third size geographic grid area. Further in some embodiments the method may proceed by determining that a number of radio access points within the second size geographic grid area is below a minimum allowable number. In that case the method proceeds by adjusting the second resolution geographic descriptor to a third resolution geographic descriptor that identifies a third size geographic grid area to meet the minimum allowable number of radio access points within the third size geographic grid area. The third size geographic grid area also includes the specific location.

In some embodiments the method includes measuring by a mobile device at least one network performance metric geotagging the performance metric using the second resolution geographic descriptor and sending the information update including the performance metric and the second resolution geographic descriptor. Also in some embodiments the mobile device may receive a request from the server to adjust the geographic descriptor resolution. For example the method may include receiving a request from the server to adjust the second resolution geographic descriptor to a third resolution geographic descriptor by increasing the resolution to correspondingly decrease the corresponding geographic grid area to a third size geographic grid area based on a network exception report. The mobile device then proceeds to sending information updates with the performance metrics and the third resolution geographic descriptor. This enables the server to zoom in on problem areas within a given network to help identify potential sources of the exception. Measure network performance metrics may include at least one of a data quality metric or a voice quality metric. Information updates may include among other things a network ID a cell ID frequency and band information or a detected radio access technology identification.

The present disclosure also provides an example mobile device that includes at least one wireless network transceiver location detection logic memory and at least one processor. The processor is operatively coupled to the memory to the location detection logic and to the at least one wireless network transceiver. The at least one processor is operative to among other things perform operations of the disclosed methods of operation.

Another disclosed method relates to operation of a server. The method begins with the server receiving information updates from a plurality of mobile devices. Each information update includes a first resolution geographic descriptor that identifies a first size geographic grid area. The first size geographic grid area includes a specific location identified by mobile device location data. However the server does not obtain the location any mobile device location data other than the first resolution geographic descriptor. The method proceeds with the server identifying a network exception occurrence within the first size geographic grid area based on the information updates. The server then sends a request message to mobile devices within the first size geographic grid area and requests adjustment of the first resolution geographic descriptor to a second resolution geographic descriptor by increasing the resolution to correspondingly decrease the corresponding geographic grid area to a second size geographic grid area based on the network exception occurrence. The method then proceeds with the server receiving information updates from the mobile devices within the second size geographic grid area including the performance metric and the second resolution geographic descriptor. This enables the server to zoom in on locations having network exceptions to help identify the source of the problem. The server aggregates the information updates and generates a geotagged statistical data database for a plurality of heterogeneous wireless networks.

Turning now to the drawings illustrates a mobile device various heterogeneous wide area networks each of which may include one or more microcells various heterogeneous wireless local area networks and various femtocells not shown . Wide area networks may also be referred to as public land mobile networks PLMNs . Each of these various heterogeneous networks is operatively coupled to the Internet via an appropriate backhaul connection and is operative to provide Internet access to one or more subscribed mobile devices. The mobile device may be a subscriber to any one of the heterogeneous wide area networks or may be a customer of an MVNO mobile virtual network operator . An MVNO may provide the mobile device with access to resources on one or more of the wide area networks . The mobile device may also access one or more of the various wireless local area networks .

As the mobile device changes location it exits and enters various radio frequency RF coverage areas of network transceivers and corresponding antennas. Therefore the mobile device may at times be within or outside of the RF coverage area of any particular wide area network or of any wireless local area network such that it can or cannot establish a wireless link . More specifically as the mobile device moves through various geographic locations or regions it also moves through the RF coverage areas of the various networks. As the mobile device moves through the various RF coverage areas it takes measurements of network connectivity and various network performance metrics for networks with which it interacts with or can detect. Additionally the mobile device observes its own internal sensors and determines its state during times at which it establishes data connectivity voice connectivity or engages in other utilization that impacts battery charge time or other parameters of the mobile device . As the mobile device collects information it geo tags the information with location information corresponding to the location at which the information was obtained for example where measurements were taken etc. . The mobile device also timestamps the information collected with a timestamp that includes time and date.

The aggregated geotagged statistics database is used by the server to create various mappings of network performance metrics to geographic locations and to infer network topographies for such regions including inferring specific network cell coverage in given regions for various heterogeneous networks. Using these mappings and inferred topographies the server is operative to suggest connectivity and or other services to mobile devices in order to optimize data throughput battery life and other performance characteristics of the mobile devices. More particularly by receiving information updates from the mobile device and from other mobile devices the server is operative to construct and maintain the geotagged statistics database for the purpose of improving the connectivity and or data throughput of mobile devices as the mobile devices move through various geographic locations having different levels of RF coverage and varying levels of service.

For example each one of the various wide area networks may employ different radio access technologies. Certain radio access technologies may be limited in terms of which services the technology can provide. Therefore in some instances only certain services can be provided to the mobile device by certain wide area networks depending on the radio access technologies employed. Likewise the local area networks may employ differing radio access technologies. The mobile device may only be capable of accessing certain radio access technologies or some radio access technologies may be preferable for certain services provided to the mobile device such as data connectivity. For example if the mobile device is 4G capable it may be preferable at certain times of the day to access a specific wide area network that can provide 4G data connectivity in order to meet a high data throughput demand that the mobile device may have at certain times and or on certain days. The server which has knowledge of the mobile device location can provide appropriate connectivity information to the mobile device such that it may establish optimized connections based on aggregated crowd sourced mobile device performance history for mobile devices of a similar type to mobile device . The server also provides connectivity information based on aggregated crowed sourced data related to the performance of various networks measured in various geographic locations at various times and under various conditions as recorded in the network information database .

Therefore the server collects crowd sourced data on the various wide area networks including any microcells wireless local area networks and femtocells not shown . This crowd sourced data is aggregated by the server and mapped to geographic descriptors. This information is stored and maintained in the geotagged statistics database . The server therefore has the capability of optimizing connectivity and services of any mobile device that sends information updates and that may also receive connectivity information in return from the server .

By using geographic descriptors having an enforced resolution in the various embodiments rather than using specific location coordinates including latitude and longitude a level of abstraction is enforced for geographic location information used by the mobile device to geo tag information updates sent to the server . By appropriately enforcing levels of abstraction upon the geographic location information the possibility for identification of the specific mobile device is reduced thereby enhancing the privacy of the mobile device user. Put another way geographic location data is sent using the lowest useful resolution in order to preserve mobile device user anonymity.

In other embodiments the server may request that mobile devices increase the resolution of geographic descriptors used to geotag network performance metrics so that the server can zoom in on geographic locations generating network exceptions. More specifically the data collected by the server may indicate a network exception i.e. a network performance problem such as but not limited to dropped calls poor data or voice connectivity poor data throughput network congestion or other problems etc. occurrence in some given geographic area based on the geographic descriptors used to geotag the collected network performance metrics sent by the mobile devices. The server may request the mobile devices in the problem area to increase resolution in order to attempt to narrow down the source of the network exception and perform troubleshooting on the network.

An example geographic descriptor is a single string of binary digits that correspond to a grid area such as example grid area . The resolution of the geographic descriptor and therefore the size of its corresponding specified grid area may be adjusted by adding additional binary digits or by omitting binary digits. That is the size of the corresponding specified grid area is reduced by adding binary digits and is increased by omitting binary digits. One example of such a geographic descriptor that may be used in the various embodiments is a Geohash geographic descriptor. The Geohash encoding generates a latitude longitude geocode using a base 32 mapping in which each base 32 character is represented by five binary digits. The resolution of the base 32 geocode is adjusted by adding or removing base 32 characters from the geocode string. Put another way adding base 32 characters enhances the resolution of the geographic descriptor while removing base 32 characters decreases the resolution of the geographic descriptor thereby increasing the size of the corresponding grid area. For example the grid area may correspond to a geographic descriptor having the six base n characters of ABC123. In an example using Geohash the character string would be constructed using base 32 characters. Therefore the grid area is represented by a first resolution geographic descriptor ABC123 in the example of . A second resolution grid area may be represented by a second resolution geographic descriptor ABC1234 i.e. adding a base 32 character such that the resolution is increased and the second resolution grid area is smaller than the grid area . Continuing the example a third resolution grid area may be represented by a third resolution geographic descriptor ABC12345 where the third resolution grid area is even smaller. Therefore the resolution of the geographic descriptors may be adjusted by increasing or decreasing the geographic descriptor resolution which correspondingly decreases or increases the size of the identified grid area.

The mobile device takes measurements of network performance metrics as it moves about the grid area . As the mobile device obtains location data which identifies a specific location at which the mobile device is located it generates a geographic descriptor that corresponds to a geographic grid area. The geographic grid area will include the specific location identified by the mobile device location data such as GPS data however the mobile device will not send out any location data and therefore does not identify its specific location. Instead it geotags information using the generated geographic descriptor which identifies a corresponding geographic grid area. The corresponding geographic grid area includes the mobile device specific location but does not explicitly identify or pinpoint the specific location. Further rules are applied regarding the geographic descriptor resolution which maximizes the usefulness of the collected location data and network performance data while anonymizing the mobile device i.e. protecting its specific location based on the applied rules.

The processor is operative to execute executable instructions also referred to as executable code or code including operating system executable code to run at least one operating system wireless protocol stack code not shown to run one or more wireless protocol stacks and application or user space executable code to run one or more applications . In accordance with the embodiments the processor is also operative to execute client coordination function CCF code to run a CCF and geodescriptor determination code to run a geodescriptor determination logic

The CCF may interact and communicate with the geodescriptor determination logic via one or more APIs of a suite of APIs application programming interfaces or via other appropriate operative coupling. The CCF may also interact and communicate with a device cognition logic a data meter and a wireless data assessment engine via one or more APIs of the API suite . The device cognition logic data meter and wireless data assessment engine also have corresponding executable code stored in memory for execution by the processor . The executable code for these components may be integrated with the CCF code .

The geodescriptor determination logic may communicate with an intelligent personal assistant IPA by an API and with one or more of the applications via API suite . These APIs allow submission of a geodescriptor to the IPA or to location based applications of applications such that the user may obtain benefits of providing location information while still maintaining a level of anonymity.

The device cognition logic is operative to communicate with the sensor hub to obtain data from the plurality of sensors . This data may include information about the position of the mobile device such as whether the mobile device is stationary in a docking station placed flatly on a table surface etc. and other information related to the ambient environment surrounding the mobile device . The location detection logic may also be accessed by the device cognition logic and by the geodescriptor determination logic to obtain location information for the mobile device . The CCF may manage the collection of data by the device cognition logic and may determine time intervals or locations at which the device cognition logic is to obtain data from the sensor hub and the location detection logic .

The geodescriptor determination logic implements a hash algorithm that maps latitude and longitude coordinates obtained from the location detection logic to a single string of bits. This string of bits is subsequently used to geotag measurement data collected by the CCF prior to sending the measurement data to the server as information update . The data meter is operative to monitor the one or more network transceivers the peer to peer transceiver or both by way of one or more wireless protocol stacks to determine the data throughput or data rate being achieved for the mobile device at a particular point in time and at specific locations. The wireless data assessment engine may also assess characteristics of a wireless channel formed by the one or more network transceivers and report those characteristics to the CCF . These assessed characteristics may be related to voice channels data channels or both. More particularly the wireless data assessment engine is operative to predict poor or sub optimal radio coverage at specific locations either by monitoring internal functions of the mobile device such as those obtained by the sensor hub or by monitoring inputs that may be received from the server as will be discussed in further detail below. The CCF collects the above described data from the device cognition logic the data meter and the wireless data assessment engine and stores it in a user profile . The user profile is stored in memory .

The data contained in the user profile is time stamped and geotagged using a geographic descriptor determined by the geodescriptor determination logic and the data is then subsequently sent to the server . A portion of the data contained in the user profile is mobile device operations data which is stored in the mobile device information database . Another portion is network connectivity and or performance information which is stored in the network information database .

The CCF obtains location data from the location detection logic and geo tags the data stored in the user profile using a geodescriptor determined by the geodescriptor determination logic . In some embodiments the geodescriptor determination logic obtains the location data directly from the location detection logic and the CCF only receives the geographic descriptor.

Some of the collected data may also be geotagged by the other components that obtain the data initially such as the device cognition logic data meter or wireless data assessment engine . In such embodiments the components communicate with the geodescriptor determination logic to obtain a geodescriptor for geotagging.

This geotagging enables the data collection and aggregation logic to associate the information updates including any available mobile operations data with geographic areas and to compute statistics for those specific geographic areas. These statistics are aggregated mapped to the geodescriptors and stored in the geotagged statistics database . The data collection and aggregation logic may use the geotag location information to determine network statistics for geographic areas at varying levels of granularity.

Continuing to refer to the IPA may predict where the mobile device may be at a future point in time by among other things observing the mobile device user s calendar and travel schedule location information along often traveled routes etc. This information may be aggregated and used by the IPA to form predictions which may then be provided to the CCF . The mobile device may include user settings that permit the IPA to send this information or that block the IPA from sending some or any information. The CCF therefore may receive predictions from the IPA along with other information from the device cognition logic the data meter and the wireless data assessment engine and may use this information to make decisions regarding connections formed by the mobile device . More specifically the CCF may use predictions from the IPA to determine when to request connectivity information from the server based on geographic location.

In one example the CCF may receive a prediction or indication from the IPA that the mobile device will be in the suburban grid area at a specified time and in the urban area at a different specified time. The CCF may also determine that the mobile device usually has a greater need for data while in the urban area . In response to these determinations the CCF may establish data connections with specific networks having a desired data throughput when the mobile device is in the urban area . Alternatively the CCF may determine that some of the required data needed when the mobile device is in the urban area may be obtained prior to that time at a lower cost while the mobile device is in the suburban grid area . The cost may include but is not limited to considerations such as monetary cost battery life download time specific applications running that require the data user experience etc. The CCF may also send requests to the server for crowd sourced statistics and recommendations rather than making direct decisions.

In an alternative embodiment the CCF may send the information update to the server along with an optimization request. The server may then perform heuristics to determine the best connectivity alternatives for the mobile device and pass this information on to the CCF so that the mobile device may take appropriate actions such as for example establishing data or voice connectivity with specific networks based on the information obtained from the server . The information provided by the server will be applicable based on a geographic descriptor corresponding to the current or expected location of the mobile device. For example if the IPA predicted that the mobile device would be in urban area then the mobile device CCF will send an appropriate geographic descriptor to the server . The server will send the mobile device recommendations for the urban area or for some smaller portion of the urban area that corresponds to the geographic descriptor.

Additionally in some embodiments the CCF may request and receive destination and route prediction information from the IPA and store it in the user profile . The destination and route prediction information described using geodescriptors may then be sent to the server along with geotagged roaming connectivity information and mobile operations data. The information stored in the user profile may be restricted by user settings and these settings may also be stored in the user profile. For example the user may restrict the CCF use of prediction information and therefore this information may not be sent or may not be used by the server in that case.

The CCF may collect and send information updates that may include among other things PLMN identification information PLMN cell identification information frequency band information and information regarding the overall quality obtained by the mobile device reporting on the respective connectivity. The quality information may include various quality indicators based on known quality metrics used for assessing wireless network connectivity and may be voice quality metrics data connectivity metrics etc. or combinations thereof.

In accordance with the embodiments the mobile device may send either occasional or periodic information updates over its respective subscribed wide area network over a visited wide area network or over a wireless location area network etc. to the server . These information updates provide information related to the current service being provided by the mobile device s respective serving network at specific points in time and at specific geographic locations. Occasional updates may be sent by mobile devices in response to the occurrence of specific predetermined triggering conditions. For example occasional updates may be triggered in some embodiments by changes in radio frequency RF coverage as determined by some RF coverage metric for example signal strength signal to noise ratio signal quality etc. change of location or some other criteria or combinations thereof. In other embodiments the updates may be periodic and may occur at predetermined time intervals. Such periodic updates may also begin in response to one or more trigger conditions such as for example when a mobile device travels out of RF coverage range of its respective home wide area network. Periodic updates are sent according to a schedule of the predetermined time intervals which may be defined by the server and communicated to the mobile devices. In other words occasional updates may only be sent in response to a trigger condition such as when a mobile device camps on a cell of a visited network or otherwise engages the visited network for services. Such an occasional update may therefore be considered a one shot operation in that a mobile device will send an information update only in response to predetermined triggers. On the other hand although periodic updates may also begin in response to predetermined triggers periodic updates continue to be sent based on the schedule until the mobile device connectivity changes such as when the mobile device returns to its home wide area network. Each mobile device participating in information crowd sourcing includes a CCF that determines when the mobile device will obtain data and when the mobile device will send that data to the server . The mobile device may obtain the data from the mobile device internal components such as from sensors or from its serving network or from both. As discussed above data obtained from the mobile device itself may be stored in the mobile device information database while the data obtained from the networks is stored in the network information database . provides further details of one example of the server .

Turning to the server includes at least one processor that is operatively coupled to a network transceiver which enables the server to communicate with the mobile device via the IP connection using the various wide area networks microcells and wireless local area networks over the respective network backhaul connections. As discussed previously above the server and the data collection and aggregation logic also maintain the network information database mobile device information database and the geotagged statistics database any of which may or may not be integrated with the server . That is the various databases may be stored on cloud servers remote from the server but that are accessible to the server via network connectivity. In some embodiments one or more of the databases may also be distributed databases that are distributed among multiple cloud servers. In any of these embodiments the processor is operatively coupled to the databases using any of various appropriate database interface protocols and network connectivity as needed in embodiments having remotely located or distributed databases.

The processor is operative to execute the data collection and aggregation logic a geodescriptor resolution determination logic mobile device performance improvement logic and a device authentication function . In some embodiments the device authentication function may reside on a different server that is operatively coupled to the server . The data collection and aggregation logic among other things handles receipt of the data collected by the various mobile devices such as mobile device and may also run heuristics and or statistics algorithms on the geo tagged information updates data to maintain the geotagged statistics database . The mobile device performance improvement logic accesses the geotagged statistics database to generate suggested connectivity solutions that may be sent to the various mobile devices as recommendations to improve performance and service levels based on abstracted geodescriptors received from the mobile devices. The geodescriptor resolution determination logic may assist with data aggregation and mapping to geodescriptors by running algorithms to resolve geodescriptor aggregation issues for neighboring grid squares or surrounding grid squares when the geodescriptors generated for those surrounding grid squares have unlike prefixes such as may occur when using the Geohash algorithm.

The data collection and aggregation logic may determine scheduling of how and when the data is sent by the mobile devices to the server and may provide each of the participating mobile devices with scheduling information. Also as discussed previously above the CCF may also collect mobile device operations data that is specific to the mobile device . This mobile device operation data may be stored in the user profile and also sent to the data collection and aggregation logic as a part of the information update . The mobile device specific data however is geotagged using a geodescriptor that defines a geographic grid area rather than identifying a specific location. The geodescriptor may be stored in the mobile device information database and used by the data collection and aggregation logic to generate aggregated data in the geotagged statistics database . Depending on user settings which may be stored in the user profile the mobile device performance improvement logic may provide more personalized performance improvements to the mobile device by suggesting refined resolution geodescriptors from the mobile device. These refined resolution geodescriptors may be determined by the geodescriptor resolution determination logic and sent to the mobile device. Otherwise connectivity suggestions are made using the highest level abstraction geodescriptors that preserve anonymity of the mobile device and the mobile device user.

The resolution of geodescriptors may be modified by requests sent to the mobile device under some circumstances. The server provides features for analyzing network performance and performing network traffic modeling independently from the network infrastructure by using crowd sourced data obtained from participating mobile devices. For purposes of network performance analysis the network information database includes exception reports that relate to network problems such as dropped calls connectivity issues data outages congestion or other problems. When such problems are detected by the server the geodescriptor resolution determination logic may determine a new geodescriptor resolution at which to collect data in order to zoom in on a network location experiencing issues for troubleshooting purposes. Under these circumstances the data collection and aggregation logic will send a request to mobile devices that are nearby the location having the issues. The participating mobile devices will send data if their respective privacy settings allow for the requested resolution. For example if the geographic resolution requested is too high given the population density of participating mobile devices in the location the mobile device may deny or ignore the request.

Different geodescriptor resolutions may also be requested from the mobile devices in order to determine traffic models by identifying mobile device traffic transients and trends at certain locations. The server may either request that the participating mobile devices either increase or decrease their geodescriptor resolutions for this purpose. For example the server may request higher resolution geodescriptors during busy hours when the population density of participating mobile devices is large.

Each one of the mobile devices such as mobile device that participate in crowd sourcing network data by sending information updates are subscribed to a service provided by the server in accordance with the embodiments. Upon accessing and subscribing to the service provided by the server each of the mobile devices receives the CCF by a download or by a push operation and the CCF executable code is stored in memory of each mobile device. In mobile device for example the CCF executable code provides executable instructions that are executable by the processor to execute and run the CCF in accordance with the embodiments. The execution of the CCF executable code by the processor may also implement and run the device cognition logic data meter and wireless data assessment engine . Also in accordance with the embodiments the user profile stored in the memory of the mobile device may be dynamically updated from time to time by the mobile device performance improvement logic of the server in conjunction with the CCF . In other words as the mobile device moves from geographic location to geographic location as defined by geodescriptors the user profile may be updated with helpful connectivity schedules and information that helps the mobile device optimize data throughput performance including using proactive data caching and increase battery charge time.

The network information database contains connectivity information and network performance metrics related to all of the heterogeneous wide area networks and wireless local area networks in accordance with information obtained and collected from the mobile devices participating in the data crowd sourcing. The information may include but is not limited to network statistics for coverage and data connectivity network IDs cell IDs frequency and band information data and voice quality metrics access technology employed etc. Because this information is geotagged the network information database can be used by the data collection and aggregation logic to discern a network topography for any of the networks for which information is observed measured and collected. The network topographies and performance characteristics are obtained using crowd sourced data in that data is collected from various mobile devices independently from the networks themselves and without any particular network involvement. In other words the server and data collection and aggregation logic are not part of any network infrastructure but are independent from any specific network. As was discussed above various mobile devices such as example mobile device occasionally or periodically send information updates to the server related to network connectivity and service level obtained from either a subscribed to wide area network from any visited wide area networks i.e. roaming networks or from wireless local area networks. That is each of the participating mobile devices includes a CCF and other associated components shown in the example of such that each mobile device s CCF manages the collection of such data in cooperation with the data collection and aggregation logic of the server .

The flowchart of provides an example high level operating process of the mobile device and its interaction with the server . The method of operation begins and in operation block the CCF obtains location data from the location detection logic as latitude and longitude coordinates. The obtained location data is pushed to the geodescriptor determination logic using the API suite . In operation block the geodescriptor determination logic generates geographic descriptor using the location data. In operation block the CCF measures network performance metrics for one or more networks. In operation block the CCF obtains the geographic descriptor from the geodescriptor determination logic and uses it to geotag the data. The data is also time stamped. In operation block the CCF sends the geotagged data in an information update sent to the data collection and aggregation logic of server and the method of operation then ends.

The flowchart of provides a method of operation of a mobile device for collecting network measurements determining an appropriate geographic descriptor to preserve user anonymity geotagging the measurements using the geographic descriptor and sending the geotagged measurements to a server in accordance with an embodiment. The method of operation begins and in operation block the CCF obtains location data from the location detection logic as latitude and longitude coordinates. The obtained location data is pushed to the geodescriptor determination logic using the API suite and in operation block the geodescriptor determination logic generates an initial geographic descriptor using the location data.

In decision block the geodescriptor determination logic checks whether the initial geographic descriptor resolution is sufficient to preserve the mobile device user s anonymity. This check initially involves checking the population density corresponding to the grid block size defined by the initially generated geodescriptor. This check may be performed by the geodescriptor resolution determination logic of the server . The CCF or the geodescriptor determination logic on the mobile device may send a request to the server for the population density. If the population density is less than a threshold for example one hundred people per grid block size or less then the method of operation proceeds to operation block .

In operation block an adjustment is made to lower the geodescriptor resolution and therefore increase the grid block size to further abstract the location data and preserve anonymity. The geodescriptor determination logic adjusts the geodescriptor in operation block and the method proceeds to operation block . If the geodescriptor resolution corresponded to a grid block size having a population density that met the threshold in decision block then the method of operation likewise proceeds to operation block . In operation block the information update such as network performance metric measurements is geotagged using the geodescriptor and the geotagged data is sent to the server in operation block . The method of operation then ends.

The flowchart of provides further details of methods of operation in accordance with the embodiments. The method of operation shown in provides a tiered abstraction level for the geographic location data which is appropriate for optimizing mobile device performance in the related environment while preserving user anonymity. The term abstraction as used herein refers to the correlation of a geographic grid block of a given resolution to one or more network performance metrics. Specifically crowd source network performance metrics are geotagged and aggregated to develop network statistics. These network statistics may be used along with predicted or determined mobile device operating schedules and connections to enhance mobile device data throughput connection availability for data or voice and increase mobile device battery charge time by reducing power consumption for high current drain activities such as downloading large amounts of data . More specifically the network statistics may be used to provide recommendations to a mobile device for improving data connectivity and throughput and reducing battery power consumption.

Therefore in the method of operation begins and in operation block the CCF obtains location data from the location detection logic as latitude and longitude coordinates. In operation block the geodescriptor determination logic generates an initial geographic descriptor of a first length using the location data. The first length refers to the geocode length and is related to the grid block size and therefore determines the initial resolution as was discussed above. In operation block the geodescriptor determination logic checks the population density corresponding to the grid block size defined by the initially generated geodescriptor. In decision block if the population density corresponding to the grid block size is below the acceptable threshold then the method of operation proceeds to operation block . In operation block the CCF or the geodescriptor determination logic implements a closed loop operation with the server and with the geodescriptor resolution determination logic . In operation block using the closed loop adjustment operation the geodescriptor is correspondingly adjusted to a second length i.e. geocode length in order to provide a second resolution that provides the necessary abstraction to preserve the user s anonymity. The method of operation then proceeds to decision block . Likewise if the population density was not below the acceptable threshold in decision block the method of operation also proceeds to decision block .

In decision block the geodescriptor determination logic checks whether the population density in the grid block size corresponding to the geographic descriptor is time dependent. For example in a city downtown area the population may be transient due to people coming and going from their respective workplaces. Therefore an actual population density for a grid block size corresponding to such an area may not provide the entire picture. That is the geodescriptor corresponding to that grid block size may not appropriately preserve the user s anonymity depending on the time of day or day of week if less people who are mobile device users are present. The check of decision block is performed in a closed loop operation with the server . The geodescriptor resolution determination logic of the server may check for example the geo tagged statistics database to determine the number of mobile devices that are reporting data in the geographic location corresponding to the geodescriptor under scrutiny. The number of mobile devices reporting information may be used to infer the transient population corresponding to the grid block size. The geographic descriptor may then be adjusted accordingly if needed to a third length corresponding to a third resolution and a second level of abstraction as shown in operation block . The method of operation then proceeds to decision block . If the population density of the grid block size is not time dependent as determined by the check of decision block then the method of operation also proceeds to decision block .

In decision block the geodescriptor determination logic or the client coordination function CCF checks whether the number of access points and or base transceiver stations within the grid block are below an acceptable threshold. If yes then the method of operation proceeds to operation block . In operation block the geographic descriptor may be adjusted to a fourth length corresponding to a fourth resolution and a third level of abstraction. The number of access points or base transceiver stations corresponding to the grid block size may be determined by the server using either the network information database or the geo tagged statistics database . Either of these databases may include topography information determined by crowd sourced data for various networks such that the number of access points within a grid block size may be determined. The method of operation then proceeds to operation block . If the number of access points in the grid block size is not below the threshold in decision block the method of operation likewise proceeds to operation block .

In operation block the CCF proceeds to collect measurement data for one or more networks and for the mobile device in some embodiments and geotags the information using the adjusted geographic descriptor accordingly. In operation block the geotagged data sent to the server and the method of operation then ends.

Therefore user anonymity is preserved using the various embodiments disclosed herein while crowd sourced data is collected. A server in accordance with the embodiments is operative to use the crowd sourced data to provide intelligence back to the participating mobile devices on the best possible or most efficient way to obtain data delivery. The various embodiments enable these features and functions without any direct involvement by the networks themselves thereby enabling mobile devices to autonomously optimize their performance with assistance as needed from a cloud based server that is not part of any particular network s infrastructure.

It is to be understood that in any of the above described components that were exemplified as software components i.e. executable instructions or executable code executed by the processor or any of the other above described components of mobile device may be implemented as software or firmware or a combination of software and firmware executing on one or more processors or using ASICs application specific integrated circuits DSPs digital signal processors hardwired circuitry logic circuitry state machines FPGAs field programmable gate arrays or combinations thereof.

Therefore the mobile device illustrated in is one example of a mobile device and is not to be construed as a limitation on the various other possible mobile device implementations that may be used in accordance with the various embodiments. For example the client coordination function and or the geodescriptor determination logic may each be a single component or may be implemented as any combination of DSPs ASICs FPGAs CPUs running executable instructions hardwired circuitry state machines etc. without limitation. In one example embodiment the geodescriptor determination logic may be integrated with the location detection logic . In another example the client coordination function and or the geodescriptor determination logic may be implemented using an ASIC that is operatively coupled to the processor .

While various embodiments have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the invention is not so limited. Numerous modifications changes variations substitutions and equivalents will occur to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.

