---

title: Devices and methods for improving web safety and deterrence of cyberbullying
abstract: Devices, systems, and methods for allowing parents to view and track smart phone activities of their children can include one or more child software modules. The module can be installed on each child's smart phone. The module can access and extract data from or about more than one of the smart phone's other software applications, including at least two of the following: a texting application, a social media application, an image application that facilitates transmission or reception of images, and a web browser application. The module can further send the extracted data to an analysis server. The module can also monitor location data. Moreover, the system can include an analysis server that can identify potentially harmful language, images, and websites. Further, the system can include a parent portal. The parent portal can receive results from the analysis server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09485206&OS=09485206&RS=09485206
owner: WebSafety, Inc.
number: 09485206
owner_city: Newport Beach
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141218
---
Any and all applications for which a foreign or domestic priority claim is identified in the Application Data Sheet as filed with the present application are hereby incorporated by reference under 37 CFR 1.57. In particular the present application claims priority benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 918 607 filed Dec. 19 2013 to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 62 019 828 filed Jul. 1 2014 and to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 62 058 599 filed Oct. 1 2014 each titled DEVICES AND METHODS FOR IMPROVING WEB SAFETY AND DETERRENCE OF CYBERBULLYING. The entire disclosure of each of the above items including each appendix thereof such as U.S. design patent application No. 29 504 071 filed Oct. 1 2014 which is included as an appendix to the provisional application filed on that same date is hereby made part of this specification as if set forth fully herein and incorporated by reference for all purposes for all that they contain.

As technology and web access becomes more pervasive and accessible to younger users it can sometimes affect child safety and well being. For example smart phones and other devices can expose children to content unapproved by parents. Moreover the historical problem of physical bullying in the schoolyard is increasingly being eclipsed by social and physical threats vulgarity and similar problems perpetrated by the cyber bully. Impressive new electronic devices and social media platforms can unfortunately amplify the harmful actions of the cyber bully. Cyberbullying can include tormenting threatening harassing humiliating embarrassing or otherwise targeting an individual using information or communication devices. It can be particularly pervasive among juveniles.

Example embodiments described herein have several features no single one of which is indispensable or solely responsible for their desirable attributes. Without limiting the scope of the claims some of the advantageous features will now be summarized. Methods and systems are disclosed for controlling and monitoring aspects of user systems which may include mobile electronic devices.

In some embodiments a system and apparatus for allowing parents to view and track smart phone activities of their children can include one or more child software modules. The module can be installed on each child s smart phone. The module can access and extract data from or about more than one of the smart phone s other software applications including at least two of the following a texting application a social media application an image application that facilitates transmission or reception of images and a web browser application. The module can further send the extracted data to an analysis server. Moreover the system can include an analysis server that can identify potentially harmful language images and websites by comparing the extracted data to existing databases of harmful words harmful images or image types harmful websites and harmful applications. Further the system can include a parent portal. The parent portal can receive results from the analysis server. In some embodiments the parent portion can display the results organized by child. The parent portal can also provide both generalized smart phone usage data for each child and visual warnings when harmful results have been found by the analysis server along with the specific underlying data that triggered the warning. Furthermore the parent portal can provide an interface for receiving input from a parent. The input can include selections of which child s data to view and or selections of which types and how much of the data and analysis results to view for each child.

A system and apparatus for allowing parents to view and track smart phone activities of their children can also include the following features each child software module can be configured to access and extract data sufficient to allow the analysis server to report which new applications are downloaded to each child s smart phone and that information can be automatically recorded in a computer memory and displayed promptly through the parent portal. A system and apparatus for allowing parents to view and track smart phone activities of their children can also include the following features each child software module can be configured to access and extract data sufficient to allow the analysis server to report each of the following which websites were visited using each child s smart phone and content and timing of each child s posts to social networks. That information can be automatically recorded in a computer memory and displayed promptly through the parent portal.

A system and apparatus for allowing parents to view and track smart phone activities of their children can also include the following features each child software module can be further configured to access and extract data sufficient to allow the analysis server to report each of the following the location of the smart phone at periodic intervals throughout the day and usage of the smart phone that occurs outside of geographic constraints that can be set through the parent portal. That location and usage information can be automatically recorded in a computer memory and displayed promptly through the parent portal. A system and apparatus for allowing parents to view and track smart phone activities of their children can also include the following features each child software module can be further configured to access and extract data sufficient to allow the analysis server to report usage of the smart phone that occurs during curfew periods and that information can be automatically recorded in a computer memory and displayed promptly through the parent portal.

A system and apparatus for allowing parents to view and track smart phone activities of their children can also include the following features for each child the parent portal can be configured to display the following information on the same daily feed screen identities of people with whom that child communicates most often including a visual indication ranking those people by frequency or amount of communication and a daily feed of the child s activities organized to be sortable chronologically. The child s activities can comprise any smart phone applications downloaded content of any SMS text messages sent or received identity of any websites visited content of any social network posts created viewed or sent and a visual warning incorporated into the daily feed. The visual warning can include one or more or each of the following cursing or bullying terms questionable website visits and breaking curfew. The system can include the following features for each child the parent portal can be further configured to display the following information on the same current applications screen a list of all applications currently installed on that child s phone a visual warning identifying applications that are identified as potentially harmful based on information in the analysis server and a description of the functions of each of the applications in the list. The system can also include the following features for each child the parent portal can be configured to display the following information on the same usage screen a color chart indicating which applications were used by the child that day and how much time was spent using those applications. A system and apparatus for allowing parents to view and track smart phone activities of their children can also include the following features for each child the parent portal can be configured to display the following text messages sent and received with curse words and bullying terms highlighted a list of most commonly used curse words and bullying terms and an interface allowing a user of the parent portal to control if text conversations should be flagged automatically and how many curse words or bullying terms should be allowed before a flag is automatically applied.

A system and apparatus for allowing parents to view and track smart phone activities of their children can also include the following features for each child the parent portal can be configured to display the following web access information and controls a whitelist mode that triggers warnings if the child visits any website domain that is not listed as specifically allowed or a blacklist mode that triggers warnings for only website domains that that are flagged by a user of the parent portal or by the existing database of harmful websites accessible from the analysis server. A system and apparatus for allowing parents to view and track smart phone activities of their children can also include an embedded map feature visible in the parent portal that indicates where each child has traveled during the day and provides a warning if the child leaves a given geographical radius.

A system and apparatus for allowing parents to view and track smart phone activities of their children can also include a curfew feature comprising a control interface in the parent portal configured to allow a user of the parent portal to select restricted times that a child s smart phone may not be used and an active restriction feature in the child software module configured to completely disable the child smart phone during the restricted times except for emergency phone calls.

A system and apparatus for allowing parents to view and track smart phone activities of their children can also include the following features the parent portal can be further configured provide an interface for receiving input from a parent the input comprising selections of which types of harmful material should be identified and what level of scrutiny to apply in determining harmful material.

A system and apparatus for allowing parents to view and track smart phone activities of their children can also include the following features a computer that periodically analyzes the selections from many parents regarding types of harmful material and level of scrutiny analyzes those selections statistically and incorporates the statistical results in setting default settings and recommendations for future users.

A system and apparatus for allowing parents to view and track smart phone activities of their children can also include an analysis server configured to automatically identify patterns of harmful content for which helpful works of authorship have previously been created and stored in an electronic library and provide immediate access to those works of authorship to parents by transmitting an electronic copy thereof or a link thereto to the parent portal for display adjacent to a warning based on harmful content that underlies those patterns of harmful content.

A computing device can comprise a communications module a location determining module a memory device comprising a mobile safety module stored thereon as computer executable instructions and a hardware processor configured to implement the mobile safety module by executing the computer executable instructions. Implementation can occur by at least accomplishing the following retrieve computing device data from the computing device send computing device data to a control system and receive a command from the control system based in part on analysis of the sent computing device data. Computing device data can comprise at least one of the following receiving incoming messages using the communications module of the computing device retrieving outgoing messages sent using the communications module of the computing device and determining a location of the computing device using the location determining module. Computing can comprise one or more of the following activating the location determining module disabling the location determining module disabling the communications module activating the communications module and selectively deactivating one or more features of the computing device for a predetermined time period.

A system for monitoring one or more computing devices can comprise a memory device comprising a controller module stored thereon as computer executable instructions a hardware processor configured to implement the controller module by executing the computer executable instructions. These can be executed to at least receive communications data from one or more controlled computing devices analyze received communications data and transmit notification data to one or more controlling computing devices based on the received communications data.

A system for monitoring one or more computing devices can comprise a memory device comprising a controller module stored thereon as computer executable instructions and a hardware processor configured to implement the controller module by executing the computer executable instructions. This implementation can at least receive location data from one or more controlled computing devices analyze received location data and transmit notification data to one or more controlling computing devices based on the received communications data.

A computing device can comprise a communications module a memory device comprising a mobile safety module stored thereon as computer executable instructions and a hardware processor configured to implement the mobile safety module by executing the computer executable instructions. Implementation can at least select notification settings receive notification data based on the selected notification settings and send command data to control an operation of a controlled computing device.

In some embodiments a computing system can access one or more databases in substantially real time in response to input from a parent provided in an interactive user interface in order to determine information related to a user system and provide the determined information to the parent in the interactive user interface. The computing system can include a network interface coupled to a data network for receiving and transmitting one or more packet flows a computer processor and a computer readable storage medium storing program instructions configured for execution by the computer processor in order to cause the computing system to generate user interface data for rendering the interactive user interface on a computing device the interactive user interface including an indication of a first controlled device associated with a first child of the parent wherein the indication of the first controlled device is selectable by the parent in order to initiate analysis of usage pattern of the first controlled device and provide results of the analysis to the parent in substantially real time. The programmed instructions can further include transmit the user interface data to the computing device. In some embodiments the programmed instructions can include receiving an identification of a selection by the parent of a second controlled device associated with a second child of the parent in the interactive user interface. The programmed instructions can also include accessing a database storing analysis data for the second controlled device associated with the second child of the parent. Further the programmed instructions can include updating the user interface data such that the interactive user interface includes indications of at least a subset of determined high frequency contacts. The program instructions can include transmitting the updated user interface data to the computing device.

Although certain preferred embodiments and examples are disclosed below inventive subject matter extends beyond the for example specifically disclosed embodiments to other alternative embodiments and or uses and to modifications and equivalents thereof. Thus the scope of any claims appended hereto is not limited by any of the particular embodiments described below. For example in any method or process disclosed herein the acts or operations of the method or process may be performed in any suitable sequence and are not necessarily limited to any particular disclosed sequence. Various operations may be described as multiple discrete operations in turn in a manner that may be helpful in understanding certain embodiments however the order of description should not be construed to imply that these operations are order dependent. Additionally the structures systems and or devices described herein may be embodied as integrated components or as separate components. For purposes of comparing various embodiments certain aspects and advantages of these embodiments are described. Not necessarily all such aspects or advantages are achieved by any particular embodiment. Thus for example various embodiments may be carried out in a manner that achieves or optimizes one advantage or group of advantages as taught herein without necessarily achieving other aspects or advantages as may also be taught or suggested herein.

Details regarding several illustrative embodiments for implementing the systems and methods described herein are described below with reference to the figures. At times features of certain embodiments are described below in accordance with that which will be understood or appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art to which the system and method described herein pertain.

The system and method described herein can advantageously be implemented using computer software hardware firmware or any combination of software hardware and firmware. In some embodiments the system is implemented as a number of software modules that comprise computer executable code for performing the functions described herein. In some embodiments the computer executable code is executed on one or more general purpose or specialized computers. However any module that can be implemented using software to be executed on a general purpose or specialized computer can also be implemented using a different combination of hardware software or firmware. For example such a module can be implemented completely in hardware using a combination of integrated circuits. Alternatively or additionally such a module can be implemented completely or partially using specialized computers designed to perform the particular functions described herein rather than by general purpose computers. Similarly a number of databases are described herein. Any two or more databases can be combined into one database and that any one database can be divided into multiple databases. Multiple distributed computing devices can be substituted for any one computing device illustrated herein. In such distributed embodiments the functions of the one computing device are distributed such that some functions are performed on each of the distributed computing devices.

The foregoing and other variations understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art can be made to the embodiments described herein without departing from the inventions disclosed herein. With the understanding therefore that the described embodiments are illustrative and that the invention is not limited to the described embodiments certain embodiments are described below with reference to the drawings.

More children now than ever before have access to mobile computing devices often smart phones especially at an early age. Accordingly phone safety is becoming increasingly more important for parents as they want to monitor and control their children s activity on these devices. In addition children also need protection from cyberbullying. Many states have enacted cyberbullying laws. Cyberbullying is generally defined as bullying that takes place using electronic technology. Electronic technology can include devices and equipment such as cell phones computers and tablets as well as communication tools including social media sites text messages chat services and websites. Phone safety can also include reducing or preventing use of a phone while driving.

This disclosure describes embodiments of safety systems that can protect vulnerable mobile device users in particular children. Safety systems can assist parents in monitoring and controlling their children s mobile devices including for example the content stored on them or accessed by them messages received and transmitted by them etc. Parents can track location of the their children through mobile devices and set up virtual location fences as described more in detail below. Safety systems can mine data in text messages or other communications filter and send reports to parents. In some embodiments a report may be sent to a law enforcement agency or other services depending on the nature of the messages. Safety systems can also analyze non written communications including pictures and videos.

The features of the systems and methods described herein can also be implemented for mobile safety of groups other than children. For example employers or caregivers may want to monitor or control mobile devices of their employees or patients.

Web safety systems can include the following components that can work together or independently. First an analysis engine that uses filters and search logic. This can comprise a web based crawler and back end logic designed to continuously or periodically search filter or crawl social network accounts and flag conversations with illicit content for example undesirable content as may be defined or determined by a user . With respect to one or more aspects of such a crawler or back end logic can be located on a server and accessible through the web or a network and the analysis engine can be part of or accessible by the analysis module of the safety system . Such an analysis engine may also be at least partially included in a safety system plugin that may be located on or close to a user system . The analysis engine or analysis module can be distributed between various processors including one or more of the following a processor in a user system a processor in the cloud or accessible from the network a third party system and or a processor in a computer or device having access to a parent portal. A parent can input user parameters using a user system control module to help select and determine what the back end logic or crawler delivers to the parent through a user interface module .

Second a system can include a mobile application with various social monitoring and safety related features such as GPS geolocation based monitoring for example monitoring a child s location for safety purposes mobile web filtering blocking parental notification for example alerts regarding keywords new application installation application usage etc. and SMS Text message monitoring or blocking call blocking and or phone lockout for example inhibition of functionality while driving . In the context of these functions can be accomplished through a safety system plugin that can be installed on a user system for example. In some cases raw data can be gathered locally at a user system e.g. using a camera a GPS a microphone an accelerometer from its memory from other software applications etc. and either partially processed by a safety system plugin or sent directly over the network using a communications module for analysis or further analysis by an analysis module of a safety system . A safety system plugin can be especially helpful in controlling the local functionality of a user system .

Third a website interface for example an administration portal user community etc. to allow users for example parents to review reports and details of protected individual s for example their children s activities subscribe or contribute to services such as crowd sourced website black lists or white lists and or modify various parameters of the monitoring software. In the context of this website interface can be a user interface module and or an account management module and it can be accessible via the network for example.

Fourth back end data hardware and software that can store process use index recall and send for example for display the information for use by the supporting systems for the functions listed above. In the context of this back end can be included in the analysis module it can be located remotely and accessible through the network it may contribute the system parameters and be administered by a system administrator .

The described systems can incorporate and expand on the technical information and teachings in U.S. Pat. No. 8 380 176 its entire disclosure is incorporated by reference herein for all that it contains and is made part of this specification for all purposes.

User system is illustrated as a single item for convenience but represents one or more user systems . In general the user systems can include any type of computing device capable of executing one or more applications and or accessing network resources. For example the user systems can be one or more desktops laptops netbooks tablet computers smartphones PDAs personal digital assistants servers smartwatches computerized eyewear smart augmented reality wear e book readers video game platforms television set top boxes or simply a television with computing capability a kiosk combinations of the same or the like. The user systems can include software and or hardware for accessing the safety system such as a browser or other client software including an app . In some embodiments some or all of the modules of the safety system can be installed as application software on the user system .

The safety system can control and or monitor user systems via one or more modules of the user system . In a first example the user systems can include a communication module not shown having an antenna for receiving and sending communications data. The user system control module of the safety system can block access to or disable the communications module. Accordingly the user system control module can prevent user systems from transmitting or receiving communications.

In addition to using a communications module of a user system the user system control module can also control the user system through various other technical channels. For example even though the control module may monitor a communication module e.g. as radio frequency transmissions are prepared or transferred to or from an antenna within the user system the control module may use a separate channel to exert control over the system . Thus as a result of monitored communications a user interface may be controlled locked blocked etc. Thus passive monitoring and active control can be relatively independent as a technical matter but the two functions can be related through logic or programming within the safety system . This can allow greater flexibility in effectuating control and control can be asserted through multiple channels simultaneously or in a contingency arrangement. Thus if a mobile phone user is able to defeat the efforts of a control module to control a communication module of the user system the control module can revert to a mode that instead controls an interface of the system thereby achieving the same ultimate goal through a different technical channel. This control redundancy can make the safety system more robust because it can defeat efforts to circumvent its controls. That is if a child attempts to avoid parental controls in one channel another channel may allow the parental controls to nevertheless prevail. Moreover some operating systems may be more difficult to interface with. Accordingly by allowing a safety system to work through multiple channels to control user systems one or more of those channels may be more feasible to implement as the safety system is configured to work with a more closely guarded underlying operating system. Monitoring and control directed by a user system control module can occur at one or more of the root level a middle level or a superficial level of a user system . In a second example of how a safety system can control and or monitor user systems the user system control module can intercept or otherwise access and analyze image or video feeds from or to the camera module of the user systems . For example the analysis module of the safety system can intercept and analyze live capture of images or a video feed and determine whether it is appropriate for storage in the memory of the user system or for transmission. Based on the determination the user system control module can block storage or transmission of the images or video feed. Thus it can prevent inhibit deter or monitor the taking or receiving inappropriate pictures.

In a third example of how a safety system can control and or monitor user systems the user system control module can in some circumstances turn on the camera module of the user system . This may be useful to identify the location of the user system or determine if the child is in danger. The safety system can use a microphone of the user system to receive an audio signal and further determine safety of the child based on parsing the audio. The safety system can monitor for certain words like help or sounds like crying or screaming . In some instances the safety system can use the communications module of the user system to send alerts for example to parents or authorities based on analyzed image video or audio. The safety system can use the speaker of the user system to output an alarm in an event of danger. In a fourth example of how a safety system can control and or monitor user systems the user system control module can receive information from a GPS module and or an accelerometer module of the user system . Based on the received information the user system control module can identify the location and or calculate speed of the user system . In some embodiments the analysis module can supplement with accelerometer data when the GPS data is not available to determine motion of the user system . In some embodiments speed acceleration and or relative location data can be collected analyzed and or used using the information in U.S. Pat. No. 8 380 176 its entire disclosure is incorporated by reference herein for all that it contains and is made part of this specification. Further the speed may be monitored with respect to other conditions for accuracy. For example the safety system can measure heart rate of a user and track speed of the user device concurrently to avoid false positives such as when the user is exercising or walking. The safety system can also access accelerometer data from the user system to determine that a person is running instead of driving.

The third and fourth examples provided above are examples of how a safety system can control and or monitor user systems . These demonstrate how a mobile device can become a valuable tool to gather and potentially transmitting information acting as like an airliner s black box a homing beacon a child tracking device and or as a distress signal in various situations. In some modes software on a mobile phone can allow a child for example to activate a distress signal that will record and or transmit location information sounds pictures etc. without alerting a would be kidnapper to the transmissions. To save battery some embodiments may transmit such emergency information in periodic spurts for short amounts of time to enable a longer emergency operation mode. Such an emergency mode can be activated readily or it can require a password or other verification to avoid improper or inadvertent uses. Thus the systems described herein can deter or assist in resolving not only cyber bullying but also help remediate other more drastic and immediate physical dangers such as kidnapping. In order to more effectively monitor and or control aspects of the user system one or more software portions of the safety system can be installed locally on the user system . For example it may be inefficient to monitor radio transmissions image or video feeds or location information remotely if the user system is a mobile device. Thus the safety system can comprise an application that accomplishes many monitoring and control functions locally while still accepting input and control from a separate user system. Thus a parent may be able to log in to a user system control module or account management module and configure settings for the safety system but those settings can be implemented through software or other modules that are locally present on a child s mobile device which can be a user system . The safety system can facilitate safe communication e.g. through encryption between the locally installed software and the web accessible account management module which can act as a parental settings monitoring portal . Thus a parent may be able to select and input user parameters to decide levels of scrutiny and filtering that should be applied to a child s device which can be a user system .

In some embodiments the safety system can be integrated with the third party tools through a plug in or an API application programming interface . The third party tools may come pre installed with a plug in to the safety system . In other embodiments a plugin to the safety system may be installed on to a third party tool. For example a third party tool can include text SMS client an email client a web browser a social networking client for example Facebook Twitter etc. an image capture client etc.

The safety system can be implemented in computer hardware and or software. The safety system can execute on one or more computing devices such as one or more physical server computers. In implementations where the safety system is implemented on multiple servers these servers can be co located or can be geographically separate such as in separate data centers . In addition the safety system can be implemented in one or more virtual machines that execute on a physical server or group of servers. Further the safety system can be hosted in a cloud computing environment such as in the Amazon Web Services AWS Elastic Computer Cloud EC2 or the Microsoft Windows Azure Platform.

The user systems can remotely access some or all of the safety system on these servers through the network . The user systems can include thick or thin client software that can access the safety system on the one or more servers through the network . The network may be a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet combinations of the same or the like. For example the network can include any combination of associated computer hardware switches etc. for example an organization s private intranet the public Internet and or a combination of the same . In some embodiments the user software on the user system can be a browser software or other application software. The user system can access the safety system through the browser software. In certain embodiments some or all of the safety system s functionality can be implemented on the user systems .

A safety system plugin can be part of a user system . This plugin can periodically communicate through a network with a safety system using for example a communications module of a user system . This arrangement can allow for a safety system to offload intensive processing to a server rather than a user system if that system is a smart phone for example. Thus if any filtering algorithms image analysis etc. would tend to bog down a mobile processor or make the safety system less transparent or more intrusive to operation of a user system this can be mitigated by instead feeding raw data to a server or a home computer that is also part of or accessible by the safety system .

As described above the safety system which may include one or more modules can control and or monitor the user systems . In some embodiments the safety system can monitor filter and or block communications.

Any process descriptions elements or blocks in the flow diagrams described herein and or depicted in the attached figures should be understood as potentially representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. Alternate implementations are included within the scope of the embodiments described herein in which elements or functions may be deleted executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art.

The process some or all of which can be cycled and repeated in parallel or serially begins at block when the communications module of the user system receives or is in the process of sending a communication. The communication may include without limitation a text SMS message a chat message an audio message a video message a multi media message MIMS an e mail etc. The user systems controls module can intercept the communications. The communications can be intercepted using the following hardware and technical protocols for example. In some embodiments the safety system can capture packets received at the communications module of the user system . The safety system can detect whether these packets include messages for example Whatsapp message SnapChat messages Facebook messages etc. The intercepted messages can be stored in a data store and analyzed as described herein.

These communications can then be analyzed by the analysis module at step . Some or all of this analysis can occur either onboard a user system on a server accessible through the network and or within a safety system that may be installed on a personal computer of a parent for example. The analysis module can review the content and source of the communications and determine for example whether the communications contain content that should be blocked or filtered as indicated at step . This analysis can use external or internal sources e.g. a dynamic dictionary of regional terminology dictionaries of urban slang a database maintained by a system administrator one or more databases updatable by a community of users specific language or country resources etc. against which to compare this content. For example the communication may contain illicit content such as profanity or inappropriate images. An analysis process can include comparison of words and word groups to identify not only explicit language but also aggressive language explicit and implicit threats etc. Analysis can also review frequency harassing or distracting rapidity of test messages for example to determine if a perpetrator is hounding a child with frequent messages or transmissions. Analysis can review metadata for attachments to determine if they are named in a manner that indicates danger or indicates provenance from or association with pornographic websites for example. Communications can also be analyzed to identify moods such as neutral or happy or sad or depressing. Mood analysis can be a function of keyword search and or machine learning. Certain words such as kill or depress or sad can be used to identify moods. The safety system can generate alerts based on the identified mood of the messages or social media communications sent or received by the users. Accordingly the safety system can identify and trigger alerts for depression or suicide. Alerts may be received via postcard notifications on iOS or Android devices.

In an example intercepted communications can be analyzed and a safety system can perform SMS filtering and searching to achieve the views shown in and or for example using the following technical protocols. In some embodiments the safety system can call operating system hooks to access SMS messages or other social media data. Operating system hooks can include Android App Managers such as SMS Receiver. The safety system can call these hooks over a periodic time interval. The safety system can continuously monitor the communications however that might drain the battery of the user system . Accordingly the period may be balanced with respect to battery life conditions. In some instances the safety system can poll for data every 15 minutes. The safety system can send polled data to server for storage and analysis. In some embodiments the safety system can capture video or snapshots of the display of the user device to track and analyze data. The safety system can also modify the user system on the firmware level. Accordingly in some instances the safety system can operate at a lower level than the operating systems to interface directly with the hardware modules.

The user system control module can accordingly block or filter the intercepted communications or take another alternative or additional action such as alerting a user at step based on the determination from the analysis module . Blocking can include any one of the following operations not storing the communication in the user system s memory preventing the communications module from transmitting the communications not showing the intercepted communications in the user interface of the user system deleting responding with a message that indicates the message was not received and the future messages will also be blocked re routing the message to another destination such as a parent portal or school administrator responding with an automatically generated kind and conciliatory message automatically responding with a reference to reporting potential legal action etc. Alerting a user can include passively recording events or items so that a user can look them up later or it can include actively sending a notification message to a user. Filtering can include removing some or all content of the communication. In some embodiments filtering can include substituting some content of the communication such as words for example substituting the word shucks for the word crap . Certain images may also be blocked redacted censored and or substituted. Filtering can include completely deleting harmful or bullying messages from a user system and or filtering can include re routing those messages to a parent that may access the system through a user interface module .

In some embodiments communications may be blocked or filtered depending on the sender or recipient. Certain senders or recipients may be on a block list. The block list may be created by users for example parents through an administrative portal through an account management module for example. The block list may also be automatically created based on number of communications frequency of communications or information received from a third party system. For example a system can include a web browser or an add on to a web browser that includes its own blocking alerting and or filtering functionality. Such functionality can be accomplished through socket or port monitoring proxy filtering or diversion etc. Block lists can also be created and updated centrally by a system administrator for example. Block lists can be maintained for various categories allowing a user to subscribe to filtering or blocking of a category of objectionable sites or material while allowing other material that may be objectionable to some but not that particular user. A multi level hierarchy of blocking sensitivity can be created to allow a more trusted user to have access to some information e.g. medical information that may be blocked for younger users due to anatomical references. All examples of blocking or filtering provided herein can additionally or alternatively comprise sending an alert or notification.

As shown at an alert can be transmitted relating to an intercepted communication. The alert can take one or more forms and can depend on the result of the analysis . In some examples the alert results in an objectionable word phrase or image appearing in a feed viewable by a parent and associated with the child along with the sender of that word or image. In some cases a parent can view all communications with his or her child along with a breakdown of the people communicating with their child and the relative frequencies of those communications.

A safety system can be used to trust but verify in the case where blocking or filtering may be turned off in favor of active alerts or passive logging . In certain embodiments an alert relating to the intercepted communications can additionally or alternatively be transmitted to parents or a third party system. The safety system can also store intercepted communications in a user data repository . Parents can review all intercepted communications from the user data repository using an administrative portal user interface described more in detail below.

Because an analysis and or filter can be applied at various physical locations a child s device a server a parent s device etc. raw data and or alerts can be sent directly from a child s smart phone to a parent device they can be sent from a server to a parent device and or they can be sent within a parent s device. Timing of alerts is advantageously rapid. Real time alerts can be helpful to identify harmful behavior rapidly and aid a timely response. Real time can refer to various relatively short delay periods including a few seconds one or a few minutes one or a few hours same day alerts etc. Factors that affect a delay before an alert although that delay may not be inconsistent with real time delivery can include internet connection speeds and availability cell phone provider service available processor speed for analysis algorithms and technical protocols and various application specific factors.

In an example various aspects of a child s device can be monitored and alerts or notifications can be provided to a parent. The general alert process can be accomplished using the following technical protocols. For example alerts can be processed through a push protocol. The safety system can analyze the monitored content and make a determination to push messages to the parents device. In some embodiments the messages may be pushed according to a priority determination. For example certain alerts relating to a child leaving a particular geofence may be pushed right away. Other alerts including child s usage of offensive words may be sent in an email report or shown on a dashboard when the parent logs into the system. Accordingly the safety system can determine priority levels of alerts and push them accordingly.

Similar to communications filtering parents may also want to filter content from various software applications on the user systems such as web browser clients social networking clients SMS MIMS etc. The techniques protocols principles and approaches described elsewhere in this application with respect to analyzing filtering and blocking functionality can also apply here. In addition to restrictions on viewing content the user systems may be blocked from sending messages or posting content in some applications. For example parents may want to be alerted to various activities or to prohibit their kids from posting pictures with alcohol or drugs on social networking sites. Parents may also want to be alerted or to prevent cyberbullying via social networking sites. Accordingly the safety system can crawl through social networking or other accounts of individuals to be protected for example children . This may be done by configuring a safety system plugin to track and automatically store the account names and passwords when children enter them for these websites or other software applications. The safety system can also work as a plug in for these applications. The safety system can review the content and determine any content to block or flag for review via the administration portal or user interface module . In some embodiments application monitoring filtering and blocking may also be implemented as described herein with respect to Apps Agent.

In some embodiments the safety system can alert a user and or prohibit inhibit or block downloading and installation of certain applications. The safety system can assess applications to be blocked using an application block list that may be defined by parents or dynamically maintained by a system administrator or a third party system and be accessible to the safety system which can access and copy such a block list or comparison database periodically. The safety system a system administrator or others can dynamically maintain the app block list based on crowd sourcing allowing users of the system to give feedback about what applications should or should not be included or discriminating between various levels of protection in a refined hierarchy of block lists. The safety system can use selections reviews and or ratings from a plurality of users to dynamically maintain the app block list. In some embodiments the safety system can automatically send an alert or prepare a report when new applications are installed on a user system. The reports may be sent daily. Parents may also see these reports of the user system on an administrative portal. The report may include the application name the description of the application the date and time of installation and application rating reviews. In some embodiments the safety system can remove an application from the user system based on an input. For example parents can remotely via the administrative portal select removal of a particular application from their child s phone.

Functionality related to application filtering and blocking can be controlled from and or reviewed using the interactive views illustrated in for example. In an example a safety system can identify analyze uninstall and or block installation of software applications on a user system using the following technical protocols. For example the safety system can call an operating system content provider to retrieve status of applications. The status of the applications can include which applications are installed or removed. The status can also include whether the application is active or running in the background. Accordingly the safety system can call operating system hooks to retrieve status of the applications. In some embodiments the data store may partially reside in the memory of the user system . The user system may have restrictions on available data space. However sending data continuously may tax battery and bandwidth. Thus in some embodiments data is stored locally for a certain time period before being transferred to a server. For instance data may be stored locally for 15 minutes before transfer to an external location. The local cache can be deleted after a predetermined time period or once a predetermined capacity is reached.

The safety system can also block content from certain websites by filtering or substitution. Some websites may be completely prohibited. Some approaches to filtering blocking and alerts can include creation storage and updating of one or more black lists or white lists. These lists can comprise a look up table that lists names URLs or other identifying indicia of the sites sources or content that will trigger the relevant action. For example a black list of undesirable websites can be downloaded or accessible automatically by an application for a mobile device. Black lists can be dynamically maintained by a user community and various objectionable materials can be classified using a code system for example po for pornography pr for profanity nu for nudity vi for violence dr for drugs etc. Existing rating systems can be employed or expanded for example motion picture or electronic gaming ratings can be used . Content can also be assigned a relative severity on a numeric scale for example. Users can rate content and an average can be used to automatically include or not include certain content or websites in a black or white list. Users can then determine their desired level of sensitivity and subscribe to one or more sets of black lists or white lists. Black lists can also include graphic images for example of gang symbols genitalia other body parts etc. and these can be used as reference libraries against which to compare unlisted content with graphical algorithms. These concepts relating to user interaction black lists white lists etc. can apply to blocking filtering and alerts with respect to both applications and web pages and message content. In some embodiments website monitoring may also be implemented as described herein with respect to WWW Agent.

In some embodiments the monitoring blocking filtering and or alert functions described herein can be used to combat inefficient behavior by students and or employees on the job. Thus the system can not only improve safety but it can deter time wasting activities and improve productivity.

In addition to analysis of web pages visited URLs employed applications run remotely or locally and messages sent or received the system can scan stored files such as website bookmarks stored favorites etc. in order to generate alerts or other blocking or filtering activity. Some embodiments can allow removal of undesirable bookmarks websites etc. The system can employ key logging spy bots ad ware techniques etc. techniques pioneered by more subversive enterprises in the service of the greater causes of improving safety avoiding or recording evidence of illicit activities cyber bullying etc.

Functionality related to website or browser alerting filtering and blocking can be controlled from organized by and or reviewed using the interactive interface illustrated in for example. In an example a safety system can identify analyze inhibit access to send alerts related to and or block content from websites or other internet sources on a user system using the following technical protocols. For example the safety system can poll content provider of the operation systems to retrieve URLs accessed by users. The content providers may access device drivers which may control hardware such as communications control and GPS of the user systems . Accordingly the safety system can poll respective content providers for specific information including telephony services URLs SMS application monitoring.

In some instances the safety system can enable parents to institute electronic curfew or grounding rules. Parents may want to ensure that their children cannot access certain features of the user system during a particular time of the day. Parents may not want their children to text after 9 PM or they may not want children to access any applications on a phone after 10 PM on a school night. In some embodiments the safety system can allow selective applications based on curfew settings. The selected applications can be customized by parents. For example parents can allow certain educations apps during curfew time period. In some embodiments curfews may depend on the location of the user systems . For example schools may require all phones belonging to students to implement a curfew restriction on school property. The safety system can identify that the user system is within the property bounds of a school and automatically activate classroom curfew restrictions. Accordingly the safety system can customize the user system based on locations and or curfew settings. The safety system can accordingly block access to applications and certain features of the user system based on the curfew or grounding settings. Parents may enter these settings via one of the user interfaces described below. While the examples in this disclosure relate to children these features may also be used by employers to control aspect of employee s phone usage during work time. Employers may want to disable access to web browsing or social networking links from user systems during work hours. The safety system can block these applications during a set time period or set locations. Employees may be able to access these application when they are away from work site. Similar functionality is also useful in a school setting. For example an authorized and responsible school administrator may be able to oversee children s activities or limit use of smart phones. illustrates views of an example safety system plugin that may be installed as a software application on a mobile device or smartphone which can be a user system for example . When the plugin is installed and running it can present a curfew lockout view during a designated curfew period. Selecting the close button can result in a notification sent to the account holder which may be a parent . In some embodiments a close button or similar functionality may not be provided and a curfew lockout can be more strict and difficult to avoid without having the password or other credential of the account holder. A notification resulting from closure can be announced on the lockout view or it can happen in the background without including the text as shown. A logout control can allow an account holder to stop the software from running on the mobile device for example. Another example curfew lockout screen is illustrated in . Lockout can involve inhibiting functionality of the operating system of a device at a root or core level. Lockout can involve blocking user interface functionality. Lockout can involve intercepting input or output at an intermediate level between these two approaches. In some embodiments curfew restrictions may also be implemented as described herein with respect to Curfew Agent.

Useful interfaces that can allow a parent to set curfew settings are included herewith as . As illustrated in the view can include a calendar background and allow visual blocks to be re sized dragged or otherwise manipulated by the finger cursor mouse or other user input approach. The blocks can represent time when usage is allowed or the blocks can represent time periods when usage is not allowed. The size and placement of the blocks on the calendar as controlled through a parent interface for example can establish periods where smart phone usage of a child is not allowed. The software and system can be configured to actually prevent usage of the smart phone or it can be configured to report any clandestine usage that is contrary to the curfew restrictions. Curfews can be set as systemic recurring calendar events or they can be customized as a consequence of specific child behavior or failure to follow other rules or restrictions. Incentives and punishments can be calibrated to correspond to varying curfew settings. Software installed on a smart phone can be employed to track attempts to circumvent any curfew settings or restrictions. Software installed on the smart phone can continue to report some activities to a parental portal or other interface even when the smart phone itself is locked to prevent a child from using it during a curfew period. The safety system can also determine how long a child is on a particular application during the day and or week and based on the duration enable some of the curfew restrictions. Also as discussed herein the safety system can disable certain apps during curfew time. Further as a child leave a particular area the safety system can block some of the functionalities of the user system .

In an example a safety system can help establish time or curfew restrictions on a user system using the technical protocols described herein. For example the safety system can selectively choose which applications to enable in curfew mode.

The safety system can also track any attempts at tampering or disabling features of the safety system . Children or employees may try to remove the safety system from the user system . The safety system can attempt to block removal or disabling of its features. For example the safety system can be designed to send ping messages that may be encrypted over a network to verify that the safety system is still active on the user system . Anti tampering functionality can also be achieved using redundant and or parallel control techniques. For example a user system control module may control one or more of the following portions of a user system for example a central processor a communication module a display a memory etc. In some embodiments anti tampering may also be implemented as described herein with respect to Apps Agent and or Device Status Agent.

The safety system can integrate or use other third party systems for analytics. For example the safety system can integrate Google Analytics to monitor usage of the mobile applications and website on a user system . The safety system can store the usage stats and send a report via the account management module .

The safety system can intercept data being transferred to and or from the camera on the phone. During video chatting FaceTime Skype etc. the system can perform image recognition and block any indecent content in real time or with a small or large time delay. The safety system can also prevent storage of certain types of pictures or drawings in the memory of the device. For example the system can prevent the phone from storing any naked violent suggestive inappropriate or pornographic pictures taken via the phone s camera or received via external communications for example text or data messaging applications like SnapChat WhatsApp etc. .

Objectionable content can be identified using an algorithm that looks for certain colors flesh tones etc. . Objectionable content can also be identified algorithmically by searching for or recognizing anatomical features in proportion or relation to others. For example facial recognition technology can be employed to identify a human face in a given image. If a face is present the image can then be reviewed to determine the orientation of a human body associated with that face by following common colors for example flesh tones that may represent a neck. Orientation can also be determined by relative positions of features in the face a body will generally be positioned in the same general direction from the eyes that a mouth and chin are positioned for example. This analysis can allow the algorithm to scan the area where a related human body is generally expected to be found thus avoiding wasting computational and processing resources. A scan can review images to identify erotic suggestive or otherwise inappropriate imagery by searching for contours colors lines and or shading that may be typically associated with images of breasts genetalia gluteal regions typical clothing that may be associated with only partial or otherwise suggestive coverage thereof hands forming gang or other crude or inappropriate gestures etc. Images to be blocked filtered flagged or analyzed can also be identified by metadata associated therewith for example data indicating provenance from a known pornographic website an xxx indication a title relating to sex acts a name of a known pornographic actor or actress a word associated with erotic industries etc.

In an example a safety system can perform image analysis to assist with child safety and well being on a user system using the technical protocols described herein.

Parents may want to track the location of their children or demarcate a physical area on a map where their children should be or not be for a particular time. As an example parents may drop off their child at a location such as a friend s house a mall or a movie theater. While dropping off a child parents may select that location and choose a radius outside which a child should not stray. Parents may select the location via the administration module of the safety system . Selection may include checking the current location on a map. Accordingly parents can create a geofence using the safety system . When the child leaves the area designated by the parent the safety system can send an alert to the parents. The safety system can also block certain features of the child s user system inside for example disable Facebook inside of school geofence or outside for example texting outside of school during school time of the selected geofenced area. Thus parents may use the safety system to monitor the location of the child with the child s user system .

Parents can pre designate location and or time of where their children should be during the day. For example parents can set their children s school location. The phone safety system can then track the location of the child and send an alert to the parent when the child makes it to the designated location. An alert can also be sent when the child is moving outside of the designated radius. Thus if a child leaves the school zone during school time an alert may be sent to the parents. A history of phone location can also be tracked and recorded for later reference and pattern recognition. In some embodiments location monitoring may also be implemented as described herein with respect to Location Agent.

Tracking a moving phone can enable measurement of its speed. The safety system can track location using the GPS module and accordingly calculate an average speed of the user system based on measured locations at certain time intervals. Other methods can also be used to measure the speed of a moving phone such as accelerometer or triangulation. The safety system can then inhibit some of the functionalities of the phone for example based on the detected speed. For example if the phone is moving beyond a threshold speed the phone safety system can block incoming text messages e mails multi media messages phone calls etc. The safety system can also alert parents if their children are driving over the speed limit by automatically identifying the speed limit for example based on the location of the user system over time based on GPS or local cell tower triangulation based on independent accelerometer techniques etc. . Such systems can incorporate and expand on the technical information and teachings in U.S. Pat. No. 8 380 176 its entire disclosure is incorporated by reference herein for all that it contains and is made part of this specification.

Speed tracking may also be used to prevent deter or help deal more effectively with abduction. The safety system can use various inputs including video audio and speed to identify a possible abduction scenarios and send alerts to parents and authorities. As an example the safety system can use variety of parameters to weight and determine an abduction score. Parameters can include screaming or crying sounds asking for help unusual geographic location not in the usual area the person is supposed to be speed of the user system or no phone usage for a certain period of time.

As described above parents can select parameters using the account management module and or the user interface module of the safety system . In some embodiment parents can directly select the settings from the child s phone. In some embodiments parents can make the changes remotely to the child s phone via one or more user interfaces discussed in more detail below.

A parent community portal e.g. accessible through the user interface module or otherwise through a network can increase the effectiveness of the safety system by enabling parents to share information with the community. For example parents can rate positive negative software applications apps websites etc. and those ratings can be shared with other parents or users. The safety system can look up the ratings and automatically decide whether to allow a child to access a particular application or it can report the community rating along with voting percentages detailed feedback comments etc. to the parent for a final decision. Parent portal user interfaces can show blocked messages and pictures to the parents and receive their input which can be used to adapt the system in blocking reporting future messages and pictures. The account management module can learn parenting style and automatically implement changes based on parent s selection of what is and is not appropriate or a parent can actively select a level of protection or define their own style using controls provided through a user interface module or an account management module for example. Such controls can include drop down menus listing available profiles available blocking databases available community standards resources etc. The portal can also use collected data from some or all parents or other users and perform statistical analysis to increase effectiveness of the application. Using appropriate permissions and safeguards for example removal of specific personal identifiers some implementations can allow parents to see other parents phone preferences for their children as a way to learning options and acceptable community standards in certain cultures and communities. In some embodiments the safety system can enable parent to search community information from their user systems . For example the safety system can provide a search functionality to look up apps of concerns and or safety ratings.

As described above the phone safety system can send alerts to the parents employers users etc. Parents can decide if an alert is a false positive and the system can adapt based on parents ratings. For example some parents might be fine with their child using the word stupid while other parents may not. Accordingly technical solutions include allowing a user to blacklist or whitelist their own terminology using a visual interface dropdown menu color scheme machine learning etc. The safety system can store multiple categories of offensive words. Categories may include firearms sexual innuendos etc. The safety system can also use context to prevent false positives by analyzing surrounding words and mood. For example pattern may be recognized showing that a parent tending to be more strict regarding some words is also more likely to be more strict with regard to other words. User community data can be analyzed in order to save a parent time in designating all objectionable words and instead implementing a predicted level of tolerance based on an initial set of responses to an interactive survey or other settings. Also in some cases there might be language cultural misunderstanding. As described above the safety system can learn parents responses to the alerts.

Integration with existing public systems and institutions can be beneficial and more easily achieved when an automated system such as those described herein are deployed. For example suspicious text and messages indicating cyberbulling may automatically be sent to a police or a school server for further investigation. A parent can be automatically queried prior to such notifications to authorities or notified simultaneously.

Systems and methods described herein can accomplish automatically what even tech savvy parents can t. Thus no matter how attentive a highly technical parent likely does not have time to scan logs or user transmissions both content and timing coming to and from their child s device s . Children may be sending more than 100 text messages a day and in addition may be posting on different platforms and network. Moreover writing a script to perform such tasks may be beyond the skills of even tech savvy parents especially when dangerous applications are constantly being created and distributed. Children maybe likely to delete messages before parents are able to review them. The safety system can include one or more modules described above that can retrieve and analyze messages including texts and data messages before a child has an opportunity to delete the messages from their computing devices. For example in some embodiments the safety system can retrieve messages from memory of the phone in real time or in substantial real time with respect to messages sent and or received. Thus even if a child is using applications like SnapChat the safety system can retrieve sent and or received messages before they are deleted from the phone. In some embodiments a system can periodically or continuously record screenshots or screen capture video during the time that a problem website or application is being used on a user system . This recording function can be used as an alternative or additional measure if the website or application is not blocked or removed for example. This function can also be used to gather evidence against a cyber bully or other perpetrator who attempts to destroy evidence or mask harmful activities using electronic means.

In an example a safety system can perform image capture and frequent logging of screenshots to assist with child safety and well being on a user system using the technical protocols described herein.

Thus the systems described herein can protect the lives and well being of children. Monitoring of devices for example Android iOS or other devices that are examples of user systems can be accomplished remotely by parents using tablets laptops or home computers which can provide a parent access to the safety system . The systems described herein pay attention to children s behavior on their smartphones and tablets so users can be a parent even in their world that is even when fast evolving modern technology and social systems are being used by children on a constantly evolving basis. These systems can provide simple real time notifications that brings vulgar derogatory and suspicious online behavior to a user s attention so parents have the opportunity to react when it matters. These systems can provide alerts to potential cyberbullying which can be purely electronic or a precursor or adjunct to physical bullying. These systems give parents the opportunity to open a sensitive and timely dialogue with children child about the challenges they may be facing. The systems described herein can do what caring parents can t due to technological impediments and time constraints. Thus the described systems empower users with awareness by monitoring children s smartphone and tablet activity including internet social media and texting so parents can teach and assist their children for example.

An example system can protect one or more devices e.g. a user system using a monitor dashboard e.g. a user interface module and or an account management module and notifications. Systems and methods such as those presented herein can allow parents or any users but generalized users can be referred to as parents herein to protect multiple devices e.g. user systems such as tablets and phones. Parents can customize the alerts and other information they wish to receive about their child s social communications and behavior. Thus a single responsible user can have a device or web interface that tracks information sent by or received by one or more other devices e.g. user systems that are used by those over whom the responsible user has parental or other authority for safety and well being.

To accomplish these goals of safety and well being a responsible user can have access to a monitor dashboard which is an example of a user interface module and or an account management module as illustrated with respect to the safety system of . This can be a web portal accessible from any computer over the world wide web see the network of it can be an application accessible on a parent s own mobile device. The dashboard which can be made available via the user interface module of for example can be a window that allows parents to see what is going on in their children s lives in real time and recognize potentially harmful communications and or other activities location viewing and usage habits etc. before it is too late. Examples of how such a dashboard can be arranged and visually presented are provided herein.

Organization of information in a dashboard view can be highly effective in making a monitoring application effective. A dashboard can allow at least some portion of various data resources to be visible at the same time but allow a single interactive view from which more details can be accessed for any of those data resources. The portion viewable in the dashboard view can provide decision making information that helps a user assess whether the additional details should be accessed. For example a dashboard can include information about how many alerts have occurred since the last time details were viewed. Additional disclosure on these and related topics are provided herein with respect to many of the figures. It can be helpful to organize notifications and content according to which child s device is the source of a notification.

It can also be helpful to organize notifications according to perceived priority or threat level. Default presumed threat levels can be established in the system. In some cases a parent user may establish their own hierarchy of priorities for notifications. Higher threats or more urgent priorities can be listed or displayed more prominently and or they can lead to more drastic notifications. For example a threat of physical harm may cause a monitor dashboard to proactively send a text or other message to a parent s phone using the audio aspect of a ringing phone to alert a parent to imminent danger for a child. To take another example receipt of a crude or otherwise inappropriate image or receipt of anything at all from a designated threat source can give rise to visual tactile haptic audio or other feedback either through or facilitated by a monitor dashboard. Notifications can be provided as real time alerts giving parents the opportunity to become aware of cyberbullying and inappropriate behavior in a timely manner.

A monitor dashboard e.g. a user interface module can depend on information fed to it from sources that continuously or periodically monitor and access content on a child s device. This can be accomplished through software that is installed on a child s device e.g. a safety system plugin or otherwise has access to for example through a cellular network or data provider s servers information coming to and leaving from a child s device. That software or a server accessible therefrom via a network can automatically translate these communications and parse or otherwise analyze them to identify what portions of these communications involve actual content sent to or from a child. Such parsing can increase efficiency when transmitted data volume is high by ignoring some aspects of headers or other technical trappings and focusing instead on substantive content for example the actual text of an SMS the actual images attached to an e mail or delivered through a snap chat type platform etc. Monitoring software can be periodically updated to support monitoring of applications deemed to be new threat sources. Thus periodic updating and interaction with a remote server can be very helpful to improve effectiveness of such monitoring software.

Beneficial features of a system can include one or more of the following features 1 a dashboard such as that discussed above. This can be a real time dashboard that parents can use to stay informed on the mobile phone and tablet usage habits of their children. Real time can indicate that updates or notifications can occur on a time scale that is relatively rapid with respect to some other underlying time scale it can refer to virtually instantaneous updates or it can refer to updates that occur within seconds or minutes. 2 Ability to monitor applications or apps. Thus a parent can be notified of installed apps on a child s phone or tablet. To assist users who may not be familiar with the latest applications detailed descriptions can be provided of the leading applications on a child s phone and why a parent should or should not be concerned. 3 Ability to monitor text messages for example those provided through a short message service SMS . Thus a parent may have the ability to view all the SMS messages sent and received by their child s device with the ability to receive notifications when words of concern are used. Parents can also be notified when flagged contacts that is contacts of a child that have previously been identified as a potential problem or threat source send something to the child for example an SMS message . 4 Ability to monitor browsing or other usage of the world wide web WWW or web . Parents can receive alerts when flagged URLs such as porn and other inappropriate websites are accessed from a child s device. 5 Ability to monitor social media. A parent may be able to view photos uploaded to a child s Social Media accounts in one convenient location and receive alerts when content for example words music or images of concern are used on social networks. 6 Location Tracking. Parents can view current and past locations of their child s device and create areas geo fences where the child cannot use their phone i.e. school or the parent will be notified. Geo fencing features can provide exceptions for emergencies. Such exceptions can be accomplished through a permission system involving a parent s remote decision through a dashboard for example. Another example is an ability to telephone a parent notwithstanding a geo fence blocking all other calls from a particular location. 7 Curfew. Parents can establish time restrictions on when the child can use their mobile devices. For example if the child tries to use the device during restricted times the parent can be notified immediately. Exceptions for emergencies can also be implemented here. 8 Notifications. All notifications or alerts can be set to real time hourly daily or weekly summary reports. Notifications can be accompanied by icons or particular colors indicating a level of priority or urgency. They can also include icons indicating that the source of a notification is a software program such as those with one or more functions described herein.

In addition to the figures included herewith and described herein reference is made to U.S. design patent application No. 29 509 071 which provides additional interface views examples of how information can be viewed and views of controls allowing users to interact with a computer through a user interface. The entire disclosure of this design application is incorporated by reference herein for all that it contains and is made part of this specification.

In an example a safety system can identify and report on device status e.g. installation of a safety application or plugin GPS status data connection and or whether a user system is powered on using the technical protocols described herein. In one embodiment the safety system can call on operating system modules such as content providers for Android OS to access device status. In some embodiments device status monitoring may also be implemented as described herein with respect to Device Status Agent.

Messages with filtered words can be highlighted e.g. using a different text or background color such as red or otherwise identified or distinguished in order to draw the attention of a user. A filtered word can be a word that appears in a black list or a block list and can be a vulgarity or epithet for example. Thus filtering can refer to searching for forbidden or problem words or it can refer to allowing some words to pass while blocking others. This selection can also reveal further selectable controls specific to various potential SMS interlocutors with whom a child may converse through texts as shown in the sidebar listing names. Various SMS senders can be listed as shown at with the example list of names Jacob Sophia Mason Emma Ethan and Isabella . At search results may be shown this may be accomplished on the fly as search terms are entered without a user needing to refresh a page . Clicking on the hyperlinked text go to conversation can display a message in context in the center of the window. Other views related to SMS filtering that may provide similar functionality to that described with respect to are provided as . shows a WWW or world wide web screen indicating that blocking mode can have a blacklist and a whitelist for URLs to block or allow. An X can indicate a website is blocked and a check mark can indicate that a website is allowed. As with various other views illustrated and discussed herein various portions of this view are active in the sense that a user can interact with them to select options activate functions and generally control and interact with the safety system . Thus the blacklist and whitelist modes can be selected by the blocking mode user controls and particular URLs can be blocked or allowed or flagged or allowed by a user toggling between these options using the URL specific user controls . A user can customize a blacklist or whitelist by typing a URL into the customization field which invites input using the faint text Add site. Further actions are indicated in the active area using an eye icon which can allow a parent to link directly to a browser view of the URL in question to research whether it should be included a pencil icon which can allow a parent to edit the field listing the URL or to add notes annotating when or why a site was included for example and a trash can icon which can allow a URL to be removed from the list for example . Thus a user can effectively control the filters and the functionality of the safety system in order to customize it for the needs of their family. Other views related to web access that may provide similar functionality to that described with respect to is provided as . shows a location screen indicating at the location box example user Billy s location on a map along with the date and time that the location was recorded. As indicated in the edit device menu different colors can be used for different devices and users being tracked. Here Billy s device is shown on the map with light blue icons. An eye icon can be selected to show or hide a device on the map or to otherwise view related information re orient the map or otherwise draw attention to or make more accessible some aspect of Billy s location data. A frequency can be selected for how often to search for or display device locations as indicated with the illustrated edit device menu . A location history can also be provided and accessed from this location screen for example by selecting a data from the calendar . Location information can be graphically or otherwise juxtaposed to aid a parent in recognizing patterns and or deviations therefrom. This location screen or a similar interactive view can be used to establish geographical boundaries and or other geofencing functionality. For example a circle can be dynamically drawn or placed on the map indicating an allowed radius of unreported movement within which the phone or a safety system plugin of a user system need not alert a parent. Other shapes can be drawn which can relate to school campus boundaries allowed neighborhoods prohibited locations no go zones etc. Results of violating borders can be reporting diminishing smart phone functionality e.g. limiting to only emergency calls and abduction tracking etc. Other views related to location tracking that may provide similar functionality to that described with respect to are provided as one or more portions of .

In some embodiments the safety system need not be installed on the user system of the parents. Instead the safety system can send notifications via SMS or data messaging to any e mail or other account. Parents may be monitoring more than one of their children. Thus the notification can include the identity of the child concerning the alert. In some embodiments the notification can also include a full quotation or an excerpt of the content at issue. The content at issue can be a text message a multimedia message a URL etc. For messages the notification may also identify the sender or the recipient of the message. The safety system can determine the threat level of the content to the child before interrupting the parent s user system. As shown in the threat level is very high as the content of the message relates to a possible fight after school. The threat level can be determined based on keyword and or phrase matching or image recognition.

Parenting is not easy. Parents are often at a loss to identify and resolve some of the issues that they encounter with their children. The safety system includes technical solutions to assist parents on at least two aspects of parenting identification of a problem and presenting solutions or at least identifying resources for learning and finding help leading to potential solutions . For example parents might find through the safety system that their children are being bullied or harassed or that they might be considering drinking or trying drugs. This can represent identification of a problem and it can occur through parental access to the texts images applications or websites to which a child is exposed.

Technical features of the described system can allow better and faster access to relevant background information on the topics raised by the monitoring and notification features of the described system. For example automatic keyword searching or automatic alerts based on use of any of the particular features described above can give rise to content suggestions for example links to relevant blog posts support tickets or forum discussions. Such automatic alerts can sort by relevance date putting most recent first by user rating putting those most used or most highly approved or most viewed first etc. As discussed above the safety system can determine certain keywords or identify content from the images. For example the safety system can determine words such as drink in messages Man that was a close call at the checkpoint Told you shouldn t drink and drive. Other examples are provided in . In some embodiments the safety system can also identify from images for example sent or received via messages posted on Facebook or SnapChat etc. that the child is holding a can of beer for example. In another example the safety system can automatically identify specific children using image recognition techniques or based on social network tagging.

The mobile safety monitor can suggest content for example relevant articles from social scientists therapists medical professionals or others based on the keyword and image detection. Content may not be unique to a user community for the systems and features described here and can also be drawn from larger web searches or syndications services. Content can be marked as unique to the user community or as drawn from other sources and may include links to sources so users can assess credibility. Content can be sorted by reaction or preference from a user community such that content giving rise to more comments longer reading times more forwards etc. can be featured de emphasized or removed depending on the type of feedback involved.

The safety system can store in the data repository written and audio visual materials such as articles books podcasts or videos. The data repository can also store links to professionals who may be able to assist parents in identifying solutions. The safety system can suggest content and or provide access to professionals based on identification of one or more issues discussed above. As an example besides the notification of the drink message the safety system can include links to articles dealing with alcohol and teenagers. The safety system can also include link to one or more professionals that parents can directly interact with via text audio and or visual communications. Accordingly the safety system can connect parents with the resources they need to help their children.

The safety system can also analyze a child s usage pattern of their user system to determine community content. For example the safety system can collect data on messaging use application use social networking use picture capturing usage by the child etc. Based on this gathered data the safety system can determine whether a particular behavior with respect to using a computing device is deviating from the norm. Accordingly the safety system can suggest to the parents via one of the user interfaces shown herein community content that can assist parents. Further the safety system can be used to implement the solutions identified in the content directly such as setting certain restrictions or curfew on the use of one or more computing devices. Based in part on the drinking and driving text for example the safety system can provide parents with an option to disable user system while the child is driving that is when the user system is moving at a speed over a threshold . The safety system can also automatically provide other restriction settings as described below with respect to based on the monitoring described herein.

In an example a safety system can analyze a child s usage pattern of their user system to determine content recommendations using one or more of the following technical protocols. For example the safety system can automatically implement or recommend curfew protocols based on child s usage patterns. For example if the child is using their phone while in school or driving the safety system can automatically block the texting functionality of the phone. Further the safety system can receive input from parents through a survey or questionnaire to automatically recommend phone usage settings for their children.

Further to the description provided herein with respect to for example illustrate example embodiments of a process for enabling systems described herein on one or more user systems. Users can install a software application including some or all the modules of the safety system on their user systems . The safety system can require email or other forms of validation to activate the software. The safety system can provide parents with options to select whether the computing device with the software installed is to be used by a child or parent. When the computing device is selected as parent the safety system can send notifications and or alerts regarding their children to that particular computing device. For example safety system can interrupt the operations on the user system of the parent to display alerts. When a particular computing device is enabled in the parent mode that computing device can be used to control operations of other computing devices such as those belonging to their children. For example parents can use the safety system on their user system to block some or all functionalities for example texting Facebook etc. in the children s user system .

In the example process shows registration of a software application including some or all of the modules of the safety system on a user system for a child. After installation parents can select that their child will be using the user system . Once the user system is selected to operate in child mode the safety system can monitor that user system and control its operations as described herein. Setting up a child device can include filling out a profile e.g. with name date of birth and e mail for that child. An example profile interface page for a child is provided as .

In an example a safety system can provide a single application software download that can function in either child mode or parent mode depending on a selection in a process as indicated in using one or more of the following technical protocols.

In some embodiments the safety system can track location data received from the user system of the child over time and identify patterns. For example the safety system can automatically send an alert when the location of the child s user system has deviated from the norm for example more than 100 yards 500 yards 1 mile 5 miles 25 miles etc. away from the school during the time when the child should be in school more than a threshold distance e.g. 500 yards 5 miles 20 miles etc. away from home any time of the day . The safety system can also determine if the child has visited a new location or is visiting a particular location with high frequency. The safety system can store locations and location history in data repository . Accordingly parents can use the user interface to determine where their child s device was at a particular day and time by using the time bar .

The length of time spent in a geographical location can also be tracked. If a child stays at a friend s house much longer than expected an alert can be generated. Thus the calendar and mapping features described herein can be combined to create a hybrid between the geofence features and the curfew or other scheduling features. Thus a child s smart phone can include software that automatically notifies a parent through a parent portal when a child deviates slightly or drastically from a planned schedule. Dangerous or unwanted neighborhoods can be identified geographically and parents alerted when a child ventures within a given distance of such locations. The system can track or otherwise receive data from other interactive applications that provide updates relating to neighborhoods that may become more or less dangerous over time and incorporate this data into automatic or suggested alert functions.

Location information can also be integrated with other functionality of the system. For example certain applications may be allowed in some locations and not in others. Thus a full curfew based lock down of the phone may not occur while Billy is attending his piano lesson at Miss Jones house at the corner of first and elm for example but certain restrictions may apply disabling all installed gaming applications but not the phone camera and recording functions for example. Thus the system can be used to help improve the chances that a child will not only be in the right place at the right time but also will not be engaged in unwanted activities for that place and time. Although the calendar feature illustrated in only shows days some embodiments can include a calendar with a more granular break down of hours and minutes for example. Thus an interface similar to the ones presented herein with respect to curfew controls see e.g. can also be used in conjunction with geographic or other location related controls.

In some embodiments the safety system inhibits all of the functionalities of the user system when curfew mode is activated. In some embodiments the safety system can permit voice calls to a preselected group of individuals including emergency numbers using link in curfew mode. The safety system can prevent bypassing the curfew screen by using authentication processes described above. In some embodiments the safety system can block features of the user system by accessing the boot module of the operating system running on the user system . The safety system may also generate notifications when a user for example child attempts to bypass the curfew screen . The safety system can transmit the notifications to parent s user system .

In some embodiments the safety system can automatically enable curfew mode when the child is driving. The safety system can determine the speed at which the user system is moving and enable curfew mode when the speed exceeds a threshold. The threshold can be 25 mph.

The timeline of is particularly data rich because it integrates information from various aspects of a safety system . It uses icons at the left to identify the source of the various alerts while still sorting them chronologically. The icons include a clock designating a curfew action stacked stylized conversation bubbles to designate an alert sourced to a text message a stylized grid indicating a new potentially harmful software application was installed and a stylized globe showing a website was visited. The icons can be selectable and immediately transform the view visible to a user to a more detailed summary of the relevant aspect of the safety system . The timeline can continuously or periodically refresh allowing the newest alerts and information to remain in the view most immediately available to the user but allowing a user to scroll down for a more complete history with downward scrolling taking the user farther and farther back through a recorded history of previous alerts and other information. A similar chronological organization can be presented in an image section such as the photos summary . In some embodiments one or more of the portions and can be virtually untacked from their currently illustrated positions and their positions and prominence in the view can be interchangeable. In some embodiments a similar function can be accomplished by dynamically visually emphasizing one of the four at the left when it is selected while simultaneously de emphasizing the other three by displaying them to the right.

The safety system can also generate a location status of the child and include it in the dashboard interface . For instance the dashboard interface can include a map with a location status of the child s user system. In some embodiment parents may use the safety system to activate the GPS module in the child s user system remotely to get a better location of the child s user system. The safety system can monitor a status of the child s user system including status of communications module of the device as indicated in the device status portion of the dashboard interface . The communications module of the device can include data connection GPS or NFC. The safety system can poll the device for status of its modules. In some embodiments a module of the safety system resident on the child s user system e.g. a plugin can monitor the status of the user system by polling the operating system of the user system or by directly accessing particular hardware or software modules of the user system . The safety system can include the status of the child s user system in the dashboard user interface .

The dashboard user interface generated by the safety system can also include a photos summary related to a child. As discussed above the safety system can mine a child s user system for photos taken sent or received via the child s user system . In some embodiments the safety system can intercept the photos and or videos taken from the memory of the user system before they are deleted by applications like Snapchat or by users of the user system. The safety system can also mine through social networking data repositories to retrieve pictures and or videos related to the child. The safety system can use image recognition or use a child s password to obtain the photos and videos from the child s account. In some embodiments the corresponding comments relating to the images are also retrieved by the safety system . Selecting the photos summary can change a view focusing on the photos that may be similar to for example. Comments and other information regarding the photos may be available when the photo is selected in that more focused view. The safety system can group photos retrieved from various sources described above in the photo summary section . In some embodiments the photos may grouped by relevance to child s safety. For example the safety system may selective display photos that may seem lewd or is associated with a troublesome comment or includes pictures of alcohol etc. The photos may also be arranged in chronological order arranged by source etc.

The dashboard user interface generated by the safety system can include a contacts summary bar that can illustrate a group of people who communicate with a user of a user system . For instance the safety system can monitor communications from the user system and via social networking platforms as discussed herein. Based on the monitoring the safety system can determine a group of people that a child communicates with most frequently using various modes of communications. The safety system can display this group of people with high communication frequency in the contacts summary bar as illustrated in . The safety system can automatically remove parents or family members from this group of people in some embodiments. The safety system can retrieve pictures of people in that group for display in the contact summary bar . The pictures may be retrieved from a person s social networking or phone profile for example using a designated contact photo . The safety system may also calculate statistics for example percentage communication for the group of people as discussed more in detail with respect to .

Parents can also navigate between monitoring multiple children. For example the safety system can store monitored data for each of the children using respective computer devices in data repository . Based on the stored data the safety system can generate the dashboard user interface . In some embodiments the safety system can distinguish notifications based on children. For example parents can select a link corresponding to a first child or links and for second and third children respectively to access monitored data for each child. In some embodiments the safety system can indicate new notifications by superimposing numbers on icons representing particular children as illustrated in . The notification icon can indicate a number of new notifications since the dashboard was previously viewed new notifications in the last day new notifications in a preceding amount of time designated by and adjustable by the user etc.

Parents can share information from a dashboard view or any of the disclosed views with each other. For example a screen shot from the parent portal can be automatically e mailed to a spouse or saved for later reference or proof. When time place and activity tracking functions are combined as discussed herein each child can have a single status indicator showing how the child s current location and activities for example phone usage may or may not currently comply with a comprehensive schedule created by the parent or child for example. Periods of non compliance can be tracked and recorded. Children can compete with each other to achieve higher levels of schedule compliance and be rewarded with later curfews or other differences in allowed phone usage. The disclosed systems can automatically arrange and administer such beneficial competition because it tracks usage timing and location as well as controls smart phone lock out and other curfew options. Thus obedience and other desired behavior can be incentivized automatically using the system.

The safety system can also include a sidebar to access other user interfaces generated by the safety system as discussed with respect to for example. In some embodiments the safety system can generate a sidebar including an application summary link SMS summary link internet summary link location summary link curfew summary link picture summary link and community features summary link . Parents can select one of the links in the sidebar to access a user interface corresponding to the selected link.

In some embodiments the safety system may modify the contact summary bar included in the SMS activity interface . For example the safety system may organize and sort contacts in the bar based solely on SMS instead of other modes of communications discussed above with respect to . The safety system can also include search toolbar to enable parents to search through messages communicated via the child s user system .

In some embodiments the safety system can enable parents to define their own custom rules for filtering messages. For instance parents can select certain words for example drunk or terms and connectors drunk near driving . The safety system can use these custom rules to filter messages. The safety system can also track word usages and include a listing of most used words in a list as illustrated. The safety system can employ image recognition or optical character recognition to prevent contacts from using picture in messages to avoid bypassing filters.

The safety system can enable parents to track location of children over time using a timeline search control shown in . In the illustrated example the last 7 days are selected for timeline search. The active link can enable parents to select any time period. Based on the selection of a time period the safety system can retrieve stored location data about a particular user system from the data repository for the selected time period. In some embodiment the safety system can generate visual indications on the map based on the retrieved data. The visual indications may show a path of transit of the user device over the selected time period. In some embodiments the visual indications can show only places of interest and discard transit information. The safety system can also highlight certain locations and in the visual indication as shown in . The safety system can also indicate a period of time that a user system was at a particular location. The safety system can automatically identify in the visual indications particular locations and where the user system was stationary with respect to the boundary of that location for at least a predetermined time period. In one embodiment the predetermined time period is 15 minutes. In some embodiments the predetermined time period can be more than 15 minutes or less than 15 minutes. For example the predetermined time period can be 30 minutes or 1 hour. As discussed above the safety system can store places like homes and school. Accordingly the safety system can illustrate on the map stored places. Further the safety system can also show on the map new locations for example Billy was at 251 W 3St for 15 m . Accordingly parents can get a visual snapshot of their children s whereabouts over a time period and identify places that their children are frequently visiting. For example parents can identify trends such as Billy was at school for a shorter duration than normal hours on Wednesday as shown in the figure . In another example parents can review a new location 251 W 3St that Billy stopped over for 15 minutes.

As discussed herein the safety system can apply curfew settings automatically based on locations places or geofences. For example entry into a safe zone or getting out of curfew time may automatically reactivate some of the functionality of the user system .

Account settings interactive screens such as can be accessed using a control associated with the Welcome Rowland Day dropdown menu indicator which can initiate a menu showing a log out control or a my account control. The my account control not shown can be selected and result in various settings pages accessible by the tabs . As illustrated here the my account bar can include a pointer indicating that the current account is that of the example parent Rowland Day protecting children since Feb. 11 2011 . An additional parent or guardian can be added using the add parent button and an additional child can be added using the add child button .

The tabs can include for example an account info tab a profile tab a notifications tab and a devices tab. The devices screen can be accessed by selecting the device tab and this screen can include an existing device box showing details of devices already added and allowing for their removal as well as administrative tools to register additional controller user systems e.g. user systems used by parents with the safety system . The safety system can add a registered controller user system as one of the devices to send notifications to regarding child user systems using the add device control . For example both parents can receive updates from children s user system once their devices are registered with the safety system. Subscription plan information can be included at a devices installed and remaining dialogue can be provided and an upgrade button can allow a user to increase the number of registered devices.

When Billy s identifier is selected from an account management screen e.g. the screen shown in rather than navigate to a dashboard view for Billy e.g. the view shown in the safety system can display a subset of interactive account screens associated with Billy and settings for monitoring and protection of Billy s device as shown in . In contrast with the example shown in which shows settings for an example parent the tabs available for an example child Billy are profile notifications and devices but not account info. Similar to the example shown in a devices tab can be available for initiating a link or viewing an existing link with Billy s device s . As illustrated setting up a child device can include a snapshot showing devices that have been installed e.g. by installing on safety system plugin on the devices . Such a snapshot can indicate the name of the child the name of their device whether or not a plugin or app has been installed on the device whether the device is powered on whether it has a data connection and whether a GPS function is on. This same snapshot can include a control that allows a parent to remove the device from the parent s account.

Setting up a child device can be initiated on that child s mobile device as illustrated in . As illustrated in the process can also include initiating settings for that child e.g. using a color control to select a color for items viewed relating to that child in a parent interface using an update control to select an update frequency for that child etc. Selecting or designating an update frequency can include interacting with a control that comprises selecting from a drop down list comprising various intervals e.g. 5 10 15 or 30 minutes 1 hour 2 hours etc. The more frequent the updates the more rapid battery resources are used which can affect battery life of a mobile device. Setting up a child device can further include social network settings associating a child s social networks with a safety system which can include gathering log in information as a child logs in to a social network site. As indicated at settings can be used to selecting which notifications to receive regarding that child from a social network in this case Facebook . illustrates an interactive notifications screen . This interactive screen is also associated with Billy as shown. The account user interface further enables parents to customize what type of alerts do they want to receive from safety system related to their child s user systems. As shown in the example of a user interface can include user controls by which a parent can select one or more of the following options for which notifications to receive SMS if a filtered word is sent or received via SMS or MM or if the user contacts a filtered number WWW if user tries to access a flagged URL Curfew if a user closes the curfew screen GPS if GPS is disabled or re enabled on the device Device Data if a data connection to the device is lost or reconnected Apps if an app is installed or uninstalled Account if any account changes are made via the web admin interface . show example interfaces that can be used for these or similar purposes in particular when a user desires to update or change the settings provided when initially setting up a child device as described here with respect to .

A number of computing systems have been described throughout this disclosure. The descriptions of these systems are not intended to limit the teachings or applicability of this disclosure. For example the user systems and described herein can generally include any computing device s such as desktops laptops video game platforms television set top boxes televisions for example internet TVs computerized appliances and wireless mobile devices for example smart phones PDAs tablets or the like to name a few. Further it is possible for the user systems described herein to be different types of devices to include different applications or to otherwise be configured differently. In addition the user systems described herein can include any type of operating system OS . For example the mobile computing systems described herein can implement an Android OS a Windows OS a Mac OS a Linux or Unix based OS or the like.

In some embodiments the safety system described above may operate with mobile computing systems using Android OS. As discussed above the Android OS may provide software libraries to access and or control the mobile systems. For example the safety system can include an Apps Agent which may use one or more of Android s classes for at least one of the following operations retrieve a list of installed apps retrieve a list of uninstalled apps and track usage of currently installed apps. The Apps Agent may use one or more of the following classes AppsAgentService AppslconService AppsInstallService AppsUninstallService AppsUsageService AppsUsageSyncService ProtectedActivity AppModel PackagelntentReceiver or AppsLoader. The Apps Agent can run at specific intervals based on a Frequency Agent Service. The App Agent can check for the history of apps installation from Android s Package Manager and then check it against the currently synced apps from the server if it is not synced then the App Agent may then check if the app is currently installed to classify it as installed or uninstalled. If an app is already synced to the server the Apps agent may check for the difference in time of the app s launch until it closed.

The safety system can also include a Curfew Agent which may use one or more of Android s classes for at least one of the following operations retrieve current date time and lock phone. The Curfew Agent may use one or more of the following classes CurfewAgentService ProtectedActivity Curfew CurfewManager or StaticCurfewManager. The Curfew Agent can retrieve current date and time. The Curfew Agent can runs at specific intervals based on Frequency Agent Service. The Curfew Agent can retrieve a list of preidentified curfew time from the server and then check it against the current date and time of the device. If the current date and time retrieved from the server matches the device s current date and time the Curfew Agent can lock the device and set the lock s password the current websafety account logged into the device.

The safety system can also include a Device Status Agent which may use one or more of Android s classes for at least one of the following operations retrieve device s power state retrieve device s connection type WiFi or cellular and status retrieve device s GPS status and retrieve installation state of the safety system on the mobile device. The Device Status Agent may use one or more of the following classes DeviceStatusAgentService ProtectedActivity BootCompleteReceiver NetworkChangeReceiver or ShutDownReceiver.

The safety system can also include a Location Agent which may use one or more of Android s classes for at least retrieving device s geographical location. The Location Agent can runs at specific intervals based on Frequency Agent Service. The Location Agent can checks for the current device s location if a location provider is available GPS or Mobile . If a location provider is available it can then sends the device s current location to the server. The Location Agent may use one or more of the following classes FuseLocationAgentService LocationAgentService ProtectedActivity and GP SLocationChangeReciever.

The safety system can also include an SMS agent which may use one or more of Android s classes for at least retrieving device s SMS threads and messages. The SMS agent can runs at specific intervals based on Frequency Agent Service. In one embodiment the SMS agent can checks for unsynced message threads from the last 6 hours. If the message thread is not synced yet it may flag it as unsyned and sends the thread details message thread id messages thread sender and thread receiver to the server. Otherwise if a thread is already synced the SMS Agent may then check if there are new messages within the thread and sync it to the server per thread accordingly. The SMS Agent may use an SMSAgentService class.

The safety system can also include a WWW Agent which may use one or more of Android s classes for at least retrieving device s browsing history. The WWW Agent can runs at specific intervals based on Frequency Agent Service. The WWW Agent can retrieves the device s browsing history since the last query and send it to the server. The WWW Agent may use one or more of the following classes WWWAgentService or Bookmark.

The safety system can also include a Frequency Agent Service which may use one or more Android s classes for at least retrieving the frequency of services server synchronization rate. For instance the Frequency Agent Service can retrieve parent set update frequency from the dashboard. The Frequency Agent Service can use UpdateFrequencyAgentService.

Further the processing of the various components of the illustrated systems can be distributed across multiple machines networks and other computing resources. In addition two or more components of a system can be combined into fewer components. For example the various systems illustrated can be distributed across multiple computing systems or combined into a single computing system. Further various components of the illustrated systems can be implemented in one or more virtual machines rather than in dedicated computer hardware systems. Likewise the data repositories shown can represent physical and or logical data storage including for example storage area networks or other distributed storage systems. Moreover in some embodiments the connections between the components shown represent possible paths of data flow rather than actual connections between hardware. While some examples of possible connections are shown any of the subset of the components shown can communicate with any other subset of components in various implementations.

Depending on the embodiment certain acts events or functions of any of the algorithms methods or processes described herein can be performed in a different sequence can be added merged or left out altogether for example not all described acts or events are necessary for the practice of the algorithms . Moreover in certain embodiments acts or events can be performed concurrently for example through multi threaded processing interrupt processing or multiple processors or processor cores or on other parallel architectures rather than sequentially.

Each of the various illustrated systems may be implemented as a computing system that is programmed or configured to perform the various functions described herein. The computing system may include multiple distinct computers or computing devices for example physical servers workstations storage arrays etc. that communicate and interoperate over a network to perform the described functions. Each such computing device typically includes a processor or multiple processors that executes program instructions or modules stored in a memory or other non transitory computer readable storage medium. The various functions disclosed herein may be embodied in such program instructions although some or all of the disclosed functions may alternatively be implemented in application specific circuitry for example ASICs or FPGAs of the computer system. Where the computing system includes multiple computing devices these devices may but need not be co located. The results of the disclosed methods and tasks may be persistently stored by transforming physical storage devices such as solid state memory chips and or magnetic disks into a different state. Each process described may be implemented by one or more computing devices such as one or more physical servers programmed with associated server code.

Embodiments of the disclosed systems and methods may be used and or implemented with local and or remote devices components and or modules. The term remote may include devices components and or modules not stored locally for example not accessible via a local bus. Thus a remote device may include a device which is physically located in the same room and connected via a device such as a switch or a local area network. In other situations a remote device may also be located in a separate geographic area such as for example in a different location building city country and so forth.

Methods and processes described herein may be embodied in and partially or fully automated via software code modules executed by one or more general and or special purpose physical computing systems. The word module refers to logic embodied in hardware and or firmware or to a collection of software instructions possibly having entry and exit points written in a programming language such as for example C or C . A software module may be compiled and linked into an executable program installed in a dynamically linked library or may be written in an interpreted programming language such as for example BASIC Perl or Python. It will be appreciated that software modules may be callable from other modules or from themselves and or may be invoked in response to detected events or interrupts. Software instructions may be embedded in firmware such as an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM . It will be further appreciated that hardware modules may be comprised of connected logic units such as gates and flip flops and or may be comprised of programmable units such as programmable gate arrays application specific integrated circuits and or processors. The modules described herein are preferably implemented as software modules but may be represented in hardware and or firmware. Moreover although in some embodiments a module may be separately compiled in other embodiments a module may represent a subset of instructions of a separately compiled program and may not have an interface available to other logical program units.

In certain embodiments code modules may be implemented and or stored in any type of computer readable medium or other computer storage device for example hard disks RAM ROM flash memory etc. . Computer readable media include non transitory computer readable media such as magnetic storage optical storage for example CD ROMs or DVDs semiconductor storage etc. In some systems data and or metadata input to the system data generated by the system and or data used by the system can be stored in any type of computer data repository such as a relational database and or flat file system. Any of the systems methods and processes described herein may include an interface configured to permit interaction with other systems components programs and so forth.

Although sometimes described by partitioning functionality of the overall system into modules for ease of explanation it is to be understood that one or more modules may operate as a single unit. Conversely a single module may comprise one or more subcomponents that are distributed throughout one or more locations. Further the communication between the modules may occur in a variety of ways such as hardware implementations for example over a network serial interface parallel interface or internal bus software implementations for example database DDE passing variables firmware implementations a combination of hardware and software etc.

Conditional language used herein such as among others can might may for example and the like unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or states. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or states are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without author input or prompting whether these features elements and or states are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment. The terms comprising including having and the like are synonymous and are used inclusively in an open ended fashion and do not exclude additional elements features acts operations and so forth. Also the term or is used in its inclusive sense and not in its exclusive sense so that when used for example to connect a list of elements the term or means one some or all of the elements in the list. In addition the articles a and an are to be construed to mean one or more or at least one unless specified otherwise.

Conjunctive language such as the phrase at least one of X Y and Z unless specifically stated otherwise is otherwise understood with the context as used in general to convey that an item term etc. may be either X Y or Z. Thus such conjunctive language is not generally intended to imply that certain embodiments require at least one of X at least one of Y and at least one of Z to each be present.

While the above detailed description has shown described and pointed out novel features as applied to various embodiments it will be understood that various omissions substitutions and changes in the form and details of the devices or algorithms illustrated can be made without departing from the spirit of the disclosure. Thus nothing in the foregoing description is intended to imply that any particular feature characteristic step module or block is necessary or indispensable. As will be recognized the processes described herein can be embodied within a form that does not provide all of the features and benefits set forth herein as some features can be used or practiced separately from others. The scope of protection is defined by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description.

Reference throughout this specification to some embodiments or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least some embodiments. Thus appearances of the phrases in some embodiments or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment and may refer to one or more of the same or different embodiments. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art from this disclosure in one or more embodiments.

As used in this application the terms comprising including having and the like are synonymous and are used inclusively in an open ended fashion and do not exclude additional elements features acts operations and so forth. Also the term or is used in its inclusive sense and not in its exclusive sense so that when used for example to connect a list of elements the term or means one some or all of the elements in the list.

Similarly it should be appreciated that in the above description of embodiments various features are sometimes grouped together in a single embodiment figure or description thereof for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure and aiding in the understanding of one or more of the various inventive aspects. This method of disclosure however is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that any claim require more features than are expressly recited in that claim. Rather inventive aspects lie in a combination of fewer than all features of any single foregoing disclosed embodiment. Accordingly no feature or group of features is necessary or indispensable to each embodiment.

A number of applications publications and external documents may be incorporated by reference herein. Any conflict or contradiction between a statement in the body text of this specification and a statement in any of the incorporated documents is to be resolved in favor of the statement in the body text.

Although described in the illustrative context of certain preferred embodiments and examples it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the disclosure extends beyond the specifically described embodiments to other alternative embodiments and or uses and obvious modifications and equivalents. Thus it is intended that the scope of the claims which follow should not be limited by the particular embodiments described above.

