---

title: System and method for anticipatory dynamic customer segmentation for a contact center
abstract: System and method for enhanced interaction processing in a contact center that includes dynamically determining customer segmentation. A processor detects a pending interaction with a customer. The processor retrieves, in response to detecting the pending interaction, identification of a first customer segment to which the customer belongs. The first customer segment is associated with a first objective of the contact center. The processor predicts an outcome of the pending interaction, and identifies a second customer segment based on the predicted outcome. The processor re-associates the customer to a second customer segment, where the second customer segment is associated with a second objective of the contact center different from the first business objective. The processor handles the pending interaction according to the second objective instead of the first objective.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09350867&OS=09350867&RS=09350867
owner: GENESYS TELECOMMUNICATIONS LABORATORIES, INC.
number: 09350867
owner_city: Daly City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140801
---
This application is related to SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CASE BASED ROUTING FOR A CONTACT CENTER and ADAPTABLE BUSINESS OBJECTIVE ROUTING FOR A CONTACT CENTER both filed on even date herewith the contents of both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

A customer centric organization needs to seamlessly integrate its operations with its customer intelligence to ensure a complete and actionable 360 degree view of the customer. Every interaction is generally treated as an opportunity to improve the customer experience through superior service resulting in higher satisfaction loyalty and retention. Done correctly these lead to increased success in both profit based and non profit based businesses and services.

To this end it is known in the art to provide a cloud based premise based or hybrid cloud premise customer interaction management platform that handles various types of inbound and outbound interactions e.g. traditional voice voice over IP email web chat IM SMS MMS video fax self service other work items etc. to various types of resources e.g. a contact center agents a back office an expert knowledge worker a branch office a self service operation an outsourced operation etc. . Customers may interact through the platform with different types of individuals e.g. contact center agents knowledge workers back office workers etc. and across multiple channels e.g. contact center IVR proactive engagements web social media mobile etc. .

In one embodiment a customer interaction management platform integrates a contact center agent stations and optionally a customer relation management CRM server. Typically the contact center the agent station s and the customer relation management server are coupled over one or more networks which may be the Internet a private network or a telephone network. The customer relation management server may be physically located within the contact center and maintained by a third party or located remote from the contact center and still operated thereby. End user interactions that call for management are routed e.g. from the CRM server for handling by the contact center agents. In one representative operating scenario the contact center implements and maintains an object based agent status model that contains such data as agent identification workflow assignments media capability descriptions and status elements related to communication and media elements. The elements of this agent state model are dynamic and updated in real time as an agent proceeds to receive or initiate interactions and to communicate with the end user using one or more multimedia applications.

Routing of interactions traditionally involves sending control signaling as opposed to the media portion of the interaction itself which typically does not get routed to one or more agent queues. There may be queues associated with particular types of interactions and there may be dedicated queues associated with skills or other characteristics of the agents. Typically routing logic assigns interactions to agents based on configured logic such as longest idle agent least occupied agent skill level etc. In an alternative scenario an interaction is routed to an agent queue where it is picked up by an available agent associated therewith and who has the appropriate skill level and availability to provide the needed communication with the customer. A hybrid approach may be implemented wherein an agent has associated therewith a personal workbin into which deferrable interactions e.g. email or other tasks such as answering a customer letter proactively contacting a customer etc. may be placed in such a mode the agent typically has some freedom to decide which of his or her tasks to do next. Agents use workbins to store interactions that they have started working on and wish to continue working on at a later time. Interactions can also be distributed to workbins by a routing server. A workbin is like a queue in that it holds interactions although a workbin typically is associated with a particular agent. A shared group workbin may be used by multiple agents in a group or place. Agents can view the contents of the workbin and pull interactions from it in any order. Thus in a scenario in which agents have flexibility in selecting interactions typically the agent can view some details e.g. statistics such as number of interactions in queue or average wait time or service level etc. about a queue containing all of the interactions they are assigned to handle. Processing of interactions in queue usually is automated although an agent may have an opportunity to interact with the identified or viewable interactions. In the latter case and when given a choice possibly constrained by service level or other policies an agent may elect to pick the interactions that are most easy to resolve or the contacts with which he or she is most familiar. Typically an agent is trained for certain activities tasks some of which the agent may be scheduled to handle based for example on a designated skill attribute that may be enabled or disabled at a given point in time. Further as a particular customer interaction proceeds the customer may be handed off from one agent to another either as dictated by business process workflow because a first agent is unable to address the customer s need or for other reasons. Although agent switching is sometimes required it is desirable to avoid or reduce the impact of a context switch especially if a given agent is aware of a prior contact history and can also handle anticipated follow up steps.

In a traditional interaction the contact center agent assignment logic preferably routes an inbound interaction to what the system determines is a best or target agent. The agent typically is selected or defined based on one or more criteria such as availability occupancy static customer segment priority required skills to handle an interaction of a given media type agent capacity customer interaction history e.g. last agent routing and other criteria such as up or cross sell opportunities agent skills and the like.

While these techniques work well it is desirable to provide enhanced contact center routing strategies.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to a system and method for enhanced interaction processing in a contact center. In this regard a processor detects a pending interaction with a customer. The processor retrieves in response to detecting the pending interaction identification of a first customer segment to which the customer belongs. The first customer segment is associated with a first objective of the contact center. The processor predicts an outcome of the pending interaction and identifies a second customer segment based on the predicted outcome. The processor re associates the customer to a second customer segment where the second customer segment is associated with a second objective of the contact center different from the first business objective. The processor handles the pending interaction according to the second objective instead of the first objective.

According to one embodiment the predicting the outcome of the pending interaction includes predicting by the processor an outcome of a business opportunity presented to the customer. The business opportunity may be a cross sell or up sell opportunity of a product or service.

According to one embodiment the processor evaluates a plurality of factors associated with the pending interaction where identification of the second customer segment is based on the evaluated factors.

According to one embodiment the predicted outcome of the pending interaction matches a criteria set for the second customer segment.

According to one embodiment the predicted outcome relates to the second objective of the contact center.

According to one embodiment the second objective includes a business opportunity not included in the first objective.

According to one embodiment the pending interaction is for achieving a step of a workflow associated with a case where an agent selected for handling the pending interaction is an agent with skills to handle a next step of the workflow.

According to one embodiment the second customer segment is also associated with a third objective where the second objective is identified as more important to the contact center than the third objective. The processor identifies a first agent for handling the second objective and determines a likelihood of success of the first agent in achieving the second objective. The processor identifies a second agent for handling the third objective and determines a likelihood of success of the second agent in achieving the third objective. In the event that the likelihood of success in achieving the third objective by the second agent is higher than the likelihood of success of achieving the second objective by the first agent the processor transmits instructions to route the pending interaction to the second agent. The processor also prompts the second agent to pursue the second objective.

These and other features aspects and advantages of the present invention will be more fully understood when considered with respect to the following detailed description appended claims and accompanying drawings. Of course the actual scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims.

In general terms embodiments of the present invention are directed to a customer interaction management platform that uses a set of one or more interaction routing strategies to determine which agents should receive and handle particular contacts. The platform includes an agent assignment mechanism which is augmented to implement one or more of a set of routing schemes. A first routing scheme proactively adjusts a customer service level against which the agent assignment mechanism is executed. A second routing scheme operates during a given interaction using the agent assignment mechanism to automatically adjust which of a set of business objectives should be addressed by an available agent. A third routing scheme provides the agent assignment mechanism one or more parameters associated with a case to facilitate the assignment. These routing strategies may be carried out in whole or in part concurrently or sequentially.

The one or more routing strategies may include a dynamic customer segmentation strategy that provides an assessment or a priori re assessment of a customer s existing customer segmentation e.g. gold silver bronze etc. and then determines based on this analysis and an anticipated outcome of processing a given customer interaction whether the customer s customer segment association for new interactions should be promoted or demoted. If for example this anticipated outcome would promote the customer to a next higher segment then the current interaction may be treated in accordance with the policies of this higher level segment. The promotion or demotion of the customer segment association may be context dependent and carried out on a per interaction basis or over some time period for multiple interactions.

Another routing strategy implements an adaptive business objective strategy by which agent assignments are based in part on adjusting a business objective BO during the agent assignment process instead of relying upon a fixed or static business objective that is predefined or configured. In this approach the business objective is composed of two elements a reason for interaction as potentially refined through an IVR dialog and a set of business opportunities e.g. cross up sell offers that vary based on a known customer profile. Given these factors a set of business objectives are then defined for the customer. During the agent selection process the routing logic seeks to find a best matching agent for addressing both elements and begins with a first best business objective. If no such agent can be found a next best BO is used and so on until an appropriate agent is found to handle the interaction according to the potentially adjusted BO. The BO agent pairs are then ranked based on probability of success of the particular agent in handling the particular BO. According to one embodiment an agent with the highest rank is selected and the interaction routed to that agent for handling the associated BO.

Yet another routing strategy implements a case routing strategy determined at least in part on a case record associated with an interaction such as but not limited to a CRM sourced interaction. A CRM system or server or any other customer database system collectively referred to as CRM system which may a component of the contact center or associated therewith models a customer support interaction between one of its customers and the system as a case. A case or ticket has an associated case record having given information identifying the case its type an anticipated workflow through a set of defined or ordered steps to potential resolution anticipated timing escalation paths and the like. Depending on the CRM system from which the case originates a case may be associated with a particular template depending on the nature of the customer support issue. In case routing a case record associated with a case is used to influence which agent in a set of agents in a contact center should be identified to work the case. Without limitation a best or target agent is selected based on one or more factors such as an identity of a particular next interaction or step in the processing of the case as defined by the case workflow one or more anticipated future interactions for the given case e.g. based on predefined steps according to a workflow and or dynamic adjustments according to an anticipated outcome of a particular step etc. and that should preferably be handled by a same agent the existence of one or more previously performed interactions for the case including whether any such interactions have been re opened remaining completion time for the case and the like.

According to a feature of this disclosure the above described routing techniques may be used either alone or together. Thus in one embodiment the dynamic customer segmentation strategy is implemented in association with the adaptive business objective strategy or with case routing. In another embodiment the adaptive business objective strategy is implemented in association with case routing. Yet another alternative is to associate combine all three of the above described strategies. These routing strategies may be carried out in whole or in part concurrently synchronously or sequentially asynchronously .

According to one exemplary embodiment the contact center includes resources e.g. personnel computers and telecommunication equipment to enable delivery of services via telephone or other communication mechanisms. Such services may vary depending on the type of contact center and may range from customer service to help desk emergency response telemarketing order taking and the like.

Customers potential customers or other end users collectively referred to as customers desiring to receive services from the contact center may initiate inbound calls to the contact center via their end user devices collectively referenced as . Each of the end user devices may be a communication device conventional in the art such as for example a telephone wireless phone smart phone personal computer electronic tablet and or the like. Users operating the end user devices may initiate manage and respond to telephone calls emails chats text messaging web browsing sessions and other multi media transactions.

Inbound and outbound calls from and to the end users devices may traverse a telephone cellular and or data communication network depending on the type of device that is being used. For example the communications network may include a private or public switched telephone network PSTN local area network LAN private wide area network WAN and or public wide area network such as for example the Internet. The communications network may also include a wireless carrier network including a code division multiple access CDMA network global system for mobile communications GSM network and or any 3G or 4G network conventional in the art.

According to one exemplary embodiment the contact center includes a switch media gateway coupled to the communications network for receiving and transmitting calls between end users and the contact center. The switch media gateway may include a telephony switch configured to function as a central switch for agent level routing within the center. In this regard the switch may include an automatic call distributor a private branch exchange PBX an IP based software switch and or any other switch configured to receive Internet sourced calls and or telephone network sourced calls. According to one exemplary embodiment of the invention the switch is coupled to a call server which may for example serve as an adapter or interface between the switch and the remainder of the routing monitoring and other call handling components of the contact center.

The contact center may also include a multimedia social media server for engaging in media interactions other than voice interactions with the end user devices and or web servers . The media interactions may be related for example to email vmail voice mail through email chat video text messaging web social media co browsing and the like. The web servers may include for example social interaction site hosts for a variety of known social interaction sites to which an end user may subscribe such as for example Facebook Twitter and the like. The web servers may also provide web pages for the enterprise that is being supported by the contact center. End users may browse the web pages and get information about the enterprise s products and services. The web pages may also provide a mechanism for contacting the contact center via for example web chat voice call email web real time communication WebRTC or the like.

According to one exemplary embodiment of the invention the switch is coupled to an interactive media response IMR server which may also be referred to as a self help system virtual assistant or the like. The IMR server may be similar to an interactive voice response IVR server except that the IMR server is not restricted to voice but may cover a variety of media channels including voice. Taking voice as an example however the IMR server may be configured with an IMR script for querying calling customers on their needs. For example a contact center for a bank may tell callers via the IMR script to press if they wish to get an account balance. If this is the case through continued interaction with the IMR customers may complete service without needing to speak with an agent. The IMR server may also ask an open ended question such as for example How can I help you and the customer may speak or otherwise enter a reason for contacting the contact center. The customer s response may then be used by the routing server to route the call to an appropriate contact center resource.

If the call is to be routed to an agent the call is forwarded to the call server which interacts with a routing server for finding an appropriate agent for processing the call. The call server may be configured to process PSTN calls VoIP calls and the like. For example the call server may include a session initiation protocol SIP server for processing SIP calls. According to some exemplary embodiments the call server may for example extract data about the customer interaction such as the caller s telephone number often known as the automatic number identification ANI number or the customer s internet protocol IP address or email address.

In some embodiments the routing server may query a customer database which stores information about existing clients such as contact information service level agreement SLA requirements nature of previous customer contacts and actions taken by contact center to resolve any customer issues and the like. The database may be managed by any database management system conventional in the art such as Oracle IBM DB2 Microsoft SQL server Microsoft Access PostgreSQL MySQL FoxPro and SQLite and may be stored in a mass storage device . The routing server may query the customer information from the customer database via an ANI or any other information collected by the IMR and forwarded to the routing server by the call server .

Once an appropriate agent is available to handle a call a connection is made between the caller and the agent device collectively referenced as of the identified agent. Collected information about the caller and or the caller s historical information may also be provided to the agent device for aiding the agent in better servicing the call. In this regard each agent device may include a telephone adapted for regular telephone calls VoIP calls and the like. The agent device may also include a computer for communicating with one or more servers of the contact center and performing data processing associated with contact center operations and for interfacing with customers via voice and other multimedia communication mechanisms.

The selection of an appropriate agent for routing an inbound call may be based for example on a routing strategy employed by the routing server and further based on information about agent availability skills and other routing parameters provided for example by a statistics server .

The contact center may also include a reporting server configured to generate reports from data aggregated by the statistics server . Such reports may include near real time reports or historical reports concerning the state of resources such as for example average waiting time abandonment rate agent occupancy and the like. The reports may be generated automatically or in response to specific requests from a requestor e.g. agent administrator contact center application and or the like .

According to one exemplary embodiment of the invention the routing server is enhanced with functionality for managing back office offline activities that are assigned to the agents. Such activities may include for example responding to emails responding to letters attending training seminars or any other activity that does not entail real time communication with a customer. Once assigned to an agent an activity an activity may be pushed to the agent or may appear in the agent s workbin collectively referenced as as a task to be completed by the agent. The agent s workbin may be implemented via any data structure conventional in the art such as for example a linked list array and or the like. The workbin may be maintained for example in buffer memory of each agent device .

According to one exemplary embodiment of the invention the mass storage device s may store one or more databases relating to agent data e.g. agent profiles schedules etc. customer data e.g. customer profiles interaction data e.g. details of each interaction with a customer including reason for the interaction disposition data time on hold handle time etc. and the like. According to one embodiment some of the data e.g. customer profile data may be provided by a third party database such as for example a third party customer relations management CRM database. The mass storage device may take form of a hard disk or disk array as is conventional in the art.

The various servers of may each include one or more processors executing computer program instructions and interacting with other system components for performing the various functionalities described herein. The computer program instructions are stored in a memory implemented using a standard memory device such as for example a random access memory RAM . The computer program instructions may also be stored in other non transitory computer readable media such as for example a CD ROM flash drive or the like. Also although the functionality of each of the servers is described as being provided by the particular server a person of skill in the art should recognize that the functionality of various servers may be combined or integrated into a single server or the functionality of a particular server may be distributed across one or more other servers without departing from the scope of the embodiments of the present invention.

In the various embodiments the term interaction is used generally to refer to any real time and non real time interaction that uses any communication channel including without limitation telephony calls PSTN or VoIP calls emails vmails voice mail through email video chat screen sharing text messages social media messages web real time communication e.g. WebRTC calls and the like.

Although not shown typically the customer interaction management platform includes native support for all types of standard media such as voice TDM VoIP email chat co browse web forms and others.

Communication center has a switch CSW such as a PBX or ACD provided therein and adapted to receive incoming telephone calls from PSTN for the purpose of internal routing to communication center personnel and automated help or service systems. CSW is of course also adapted for outbound calling. CSW may be a PBX or other type of telephone switch as mentioned above with reference to LSW . CSW is connected to LSW by telephone trunk . CSW like LSW is also connected to a CTI processor running an instance of the T S server.

Processor preferably uses a separate data network for communicating with processor . In this way intelligent routing routines may be created and implemented at the PSTN level thereby enabling performance of internal call routing at the network level. Data solicited from a caller may be transferred into center ahead of the actual telephone call with the use of network and the connected CTI processors and T S instances. Agent level routing may then be performed at network level and may be controlled by center .

Center preferably has a local area network LAN provided therein and utilized to connect multiple workstations and systems together for communication. In this example an agent workstation and an agent workstation are illustrated having LAN connectivity. Workstation contains typical agent equipment for communication not limiting to a personal LAN connected computer with a video display unit VDU such as a computer monitor and an agent telephone . Telephone has connectivity to CSW via internal telephone wiring . Workstation is adapted for communication in a like but not necessarily identical manner as is station by way of a LAN connected computer and by way of an agent telephone . Additional communication equipment types may be represented within stations and these include without limitation fax machines automated answer systems other processing terminals and other such network capable equipment types. An agent may be a home agent a person that works from his or her home and connects to the contact center e.g. via voice over IP connections. In one embodiment telephones and may be data phones connected to respective computer hosts as terminal machines. There are many configuration possibilities as well as equipment variances possible.

CTI processor preferably has a LAN connection to enable supervisors with administrative authority to modify or create new routing routines and so on. The function of T S within processors and depends on accessibility to a telephony server library T Server Library which in this example is connected to LAN . Library preferably contains all of the objects descriptors and constructs to enable integrated CTI Transaction Intelligent call processing. Typically the library is an embedded part of a server that uses the library for communication with other network elements.

Without limitation Internet network is part of communications environment . Internet may be another type of wide area network WAN . For example network may be a corporate or private WAN or metro area network MAN . Internet network has a network backbone extending there through that represents all or some of the equipment lines and access points that make up an Internet network as a whole including any connected sub networks. As noted above no geographic or logical limitations are intended.

A customer relations management CRM server is provided or otherwise illustrated within Internet network and is adapted to manage customer relations relative to one or more customer bases related to one or more enterprises such as one hosting communication center for example. CRM system or service may be provided by a third party enterprise. A third party CRM solution may be implemented from the base of a third party enterprise that may include third party customer management services. Likewise CRM server may be part of customer premise equipment CPE solution whereby the entire or certain portions of a customer base are related to the host enterprise and serviced internally at a specific communication center such as center . In the latter case CRM server may be hosted within the physical domain of center and connected to LAN . In still another embodiment CRM system may be adapted to service a customer base related to a plurality of regionally distributed contact or communication centers of a same enterprise. In this case a separate but centralized facility may be provided within the domain of Internet whereby those customers of multiple centers may be managed according to the policies and rules established at each center.

In this example center is a multimedia capable communication center with Internet connectivity for contact and interaction with customers and business entities. An Internet protocol router IPR is provided within center and has connection to LAN . IPR is adapted to receive multimedia and communication events from Internet and to route such events to agent stations like stations or over LAN . Multimedia events may include email events Web form interactions voice over IP interactions Web messaging interactions multimedia capable or text chat sessions video mail interactions network conferencing sessions and IP telephony sessions. Therefore organized channels media channels and routing systems may be in place for handling these types of network interactions or events. In another embodiment the CRM system does not directly address agents endpoints but instead connects to a service provider s media services e.g. Genesys T Server for voice Genesys Interaction Server for multimedia through a CRM adapter. Likewise one or more Internet servers not illustrated may be provided to host certain network interaction like chat or Web meetings. Such server may be assumed present in this example and provided within the domain of Internet which includes that of LAN when connected online.

Among other services CRM system may be adapted to provide automated self help services Web form services email services automated fax services and other multimedia services. Likewise back end data from a CRM system may include history information statistical information further contact information and links to other resources.

In this embodiment a CC CRM adaptor system is provided within communication center and is adapted to integrate CRM capabilities with agent and call control management capabilities at the level of an agent workstation or desktop. CC CRM system adaptor is adapted to provide integration between CRM system and CTI T S capability processor using one or more dynamic agent state models . As noted above the models represent a collection of agent models representing individual agents and agent capabilities and work task assignments of those agents assigned to the domain of system or in this case agents that are available through contacting communication center .

Within system preferably contact center function and management is abstracted as well as CRM service function and management so that they may be simultaneously managed and monitored in a convenient agent user interface with graphic display capability at the agent level. CRM adaptor system has a parent application not illustrated that communicates with client applications distributed to agent stations. An instance of interaction control agent control IC AC and CRM client interface is provided within the domain of agent workstation and is executable e.g. as a software instance from the desktop of computer . A similar instance of IC AC CRM is provided within the domain of station and is executable e.g. as a software instance from computer .

By executing and running instance IC AC CRM instance an agent operating at station can receive voice and media events and at the same time provide CRM services to callers or interaction participants in a way that follows the agent status model of that particular agent. The agent status model for station defines the agent and preferably all or at least some of the communication capabilities of the agent including all of the CRM services available to customers of the agent and to the agent related to those customers. In addition the model for an agent preferably includes dynamic call and session management including current agent state and presence over a plurality of media channels including live voice channels. Client instance effectively bridges CRM and CTI related services particular to agent model customer definition and event purpose using both manual and in some cases automation to select or provide services and data needed to enhance the transactional experience for both the agent and caller.

An agent operating for example at station may receive telephone voice call events from PSTN by way of routing through CSW and internal telephone wiring . The presence of these calls in the system is noted and recorded at CTI T S processor which has connection to CC CRM adaptor over the LAN. In one embodiment a direct data link bridge may be provided between CTI T S processor and adaptor . CC CRM adaptor prompts CRM system when a communication event relevant to agent station is being routed.

During routing the telephone call is routed to agent telephone while data about the call is routed over LAN to computer and is displayed often ahead of pickup of the telephone call. The earlier prompt or request made to CRM by CTI T S processor maybe an initial machine to machine request using hypertext transfer protocol simple object access protocol HTTP SOAP asking CRM to be ready to send data about the caller to agent desktop using HTTP protocols in this case via a network access path defined by access line and LAN and IPR which routes the connection. CRM may be in a state of monitor or always connected to the main system wherein connections to agent desktops are automatic.

In a typical operating scenario CRM stands ready and waits for a request from the agent operating station . In this scenario data about the call and caller may arrive at computer before the call is picked up at telephone . The agent may then use IC AC CRM instance to send a request for specific services and or data to be available at the desktop when the agent picks up the call. CTI telephony call transfer services and multi party connecting may be leveraged for example as examples of CRM service solutions provided by CRM server . CRM server may be prompted to deliver a solution implemented at CSW like a multiparty bridged connection or meeting wherein the agent initiates the connection and then drops out to take a next call.

In another embodiment data network telephony DNT callers may contact center using soft phones IP based or Internet capable cellular telephones smartphones tablets or other such devices. In these scenarios there may be more media channels available to the interaction like messaging chat email and so on. In a pure DNT sense IPR may notify CC CRM adaptor of an event for station such as a videoconference using a host server not illustrated . CRM also may set up the initial space and format for the conference for the agent and the agent may add specific contacts provided by CRM server which may be visible in an interactive list on the agent s desktop interface. An agent may interact and may bring in new media channels and capability to the instant interactions dynamically.

Preferably the agent status models are updated during activity periods and are rendered in a state of inactive or non accessibility when the associated agent is not available for communication. When an agent comes online his or her agent status model is activated and he is then ready for interaction. CC CRM adaptor and the agent instance of IC AC CRM for example are both charged with reporting state data to appropriate destinations.

Agent stations and are not required to be located within a contact center. As illustrated a remote agent may use his or her own telephone line and an Internet or prevailing WAN or MAN connection as long as his or her telephone calls are routed from CSW . A roaming agent is illustrated in this example with a wireless connection to LAN . Agent may also practice the invention using his or her wireless access connection to LAN and a cellular telephone. Again preferably all telephone calls are routed through CSW or a similar CTI enhanced switch.

Adaptor may be a soft adaptor running in CTI T S processor or in IPR or in some other connected host. Moreover CRM system may be provided as a third party service or a CPE implement.

Typically the contact center includes an agent interaction layer adapted to provide abstraction of communication center data and CTI data about any particular agent. The abstracted data is used to provide and to update agent status that is represented within CC CRM adapter in the form of an object model.

One or more functions of a technology platform such as described above may be implemented in a cloud based architecture. Cloud computing is a model of service delivery for enabling on demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g. networks network bandwidth servers processing memory storage applications virtual machines and services that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or interaction with a provider of the service. Available services models that may be leveraged in whole or in part include Software as a Service SaaS the provider s applications running on cloud infrastructure Platform as a service PaaS the customer deploys applications that may be created using provider tools onto the cloud infrastructure Infrastructure as a Service IaaS customer provisions its own processing storage networks and other computing resources and can deploy and run operating systems and applications . A cloud based platform may comprise co located hardware and software resources or resources that are physically logically virtually and or geographically distinct. Communication networks used to communicate to and from the platform services may be packet based non packet based and secure or non secure or some combination thereof.

More generally the techniques described herein are provided using a set of one or more computing related entities systems machines processes programs libraries functions or the like that together facilitate or provide the described functionality described above. In a typical implementation a representative machine on which the software executes comprises commodity hardware an operating system an application runtime environment and a set of applications or processes and associated data networking technologies etc. that together provide the functionality of a given system or subsystem. As described the functionality may be implemented in a standalone machine or across a distributed set of machines.

As noted above the front end of the above described infrastructure is also representative of a conventional web site e.g. a set of one or more pages formatted according to a markup language .

Client devices access service provider infrastructure as described to retrieve content including HTML media players video content and other objects. A typical client device is a personal computer laptop mobile device tablet or the like. A representative mobile device is an Apple iPad or iPad5 iPad Mini an Android based smartphone or tablet a Windows based smartphone or tablet or the like. A device of this type typically comprises a CPU central processing unit such as any Intel or AMD or other based chip computer memory such as RAM and a flash drive. The device software includes an operating system e.g. Apple iOS Google Android or the like and generic support applications and utilities. The device may also include a graphics processing unit GPU and a touch sensing device or interface configured to receive input from a user s touch. The touch sensing device typically is a touch screen. The mobile device comprises suitable programming to facilitate gesture based control in a manner that is known in the art. The client is not limited to a mobile device as it may be a conventional desktop laptop or other Internet accessible machine running a web browser e.g. Internet Explorer FireFox Safari Chrome or the like. Content retrieved to the client may be rendered in a browser within a mobile app or other rendering engine.

In the context of a content center or more generally a customer interaction management platform routing refers generally to the process of sending an interaction to a target. A routing strategy instructs how to handle and where to direct interactions under different circumstances. In addition to selecting the target the notion of routing may also include determining interaction characteristics such as type voice email chat etc. priority customer segment service type target SLA etc. . Routing strategies may be created in a development environment using a tool such as Genesys Interaction Routing Designer IRD where users can test modify and load routing strategies. Genesys Universal Routing Server URS is a server that executes routing strategies so developed and in particular using routing strategy instructions. The techniques below may be implemented in or in association with contact center agent assignment logic. More generally the contact center agent assignment mechanism may implement one or more various agent mechanisms including without limitation skills based routing business priority based routing share agent by service level based routing cost based routing and other known mechanisms. The contact center agent assignment mechanism may then be augmented to include one or more of the enhanced routing techniques that are described in this disclosure. A representative but non limiting platform that implements such agent assignment functions is Genesys Orchestration Server ORS . This server provides session based routing and integrates this and other back end contact center functions with other contact center systems servers programs and processes.

Any of the herein described functions may be implemented within an enterprise environment within a cloud based environment or within a hybrid a combination of cloud and enterprise environment.

The following sections describe the various routing contact to agent assignment methods or strategies that may be implemented to provide enhanced agent assignments or more generally to augment such existing agent assignment mechanisms according to this disclosure. As noted above these routing methods are sometimes referred to herein as dynamic customer segmentation adaptive business objective routing and case routing. This nomenclature is provided for descriptive purposes only and should not be deemed limiting. As one of ordinary skill will appreciate two or more of the above described routing techniques may be used with one another. Thus in one embodiment the dynamic customer segmentation strategy is implemented in association with the adaptive business objective strategy or with case routing. In another embodiment the adaptive business objective strategy is implemented in association with case routing. Yet another embodiment is to associate combine all three of the above described strategies. The routing strategies may be carried out in whole or in part or concurrently or sequentially. More generally two or more of these routing strategies may be implemented asynchronously with respect to one another or synchronously with respect to one another. These may be configured or specified using a development configuration tool such as described above.

As is known when a customer seeks to get in touch with a contact center typically the contact center applies policies in accordance with a current customer segment or association such as Gold Silver Bronze or the like regardless of the manner in which the segments may be designated . According to one embodiment the customer segment reflects the value of the customer to the company where a higher ranking typically implies a preferred enhanced level of care or service a service level . In this regard the customer segment identification may be deemed to be identification of a service level desired to be provided to customers belonging to the customer segment. For example a Silver customer s call might be connected to an IVR system while a Gold customer s call might be directly connected to a live agent. Also different business objectives may be identified for an interaction with a customer depending on the customer segment identification. Such business objectives may relate to customer satisfaction and or business outcome. For example the business objective for a silver customer may be to achieve a certain NPS score and or closing a deal on a particular business opportunity offered to silver customers. The business objective for a gold customer may be to achieve an even higher NPS score and or closing a deal on a business opportunity offered to gold customers.

Current customer segmentation in a contact center such as described above is relatively static and it generally takes into account present and potential future customer value for the company. In existing systems the customer s segment association if it is evaluated at all is generally reviewed and potentially adjusted after the fact in particular in accordance with the outcome of a given past interaction. According to such existing systems any new segment association then becomes effective for a future interaction.

According to a dynamic customer segmentation scheme according to embodiments of the present invention a customer s service level is potentially adjusted proactively such as for example in advance of a particular new interaction or set of new interactions or in real time during an interaction itself. According to one embodiment a dynamic customer segmentation process is invoked in response to detecting a current interaction with the customer. The interaction may be an atomic interaction or an interaction related to a particular case. One or more static and or dynamic factors may be taken into account in proactively adjusting the customer s service level. For example one or more of the static and or dynamic factors may be taken into account to advance promote a customer from a current segmentation status e.g. as stored in a customer record to some higher e.g. a next higher segmentation status.

According to one embodiment an anticipated outcome of a pending interaction may predicted based on for example one or more dynamic factors to advance or not the associated customer segment at the beginning of interaction processing. For example an a priori determination is made as to whether treating for example a silver customer as for example a gold customer may very likely lead to an outcome e.g. acceptance of an offer associated with a business opportunity which would actually match the criteria for the customer s gold classification. If the chance of success is above a particular threshold value a silver customer may be treated as a gold customer and according to a business objective set for gold customers be presented with a business opportunity that in some instances would otherwise not have been presented to him her as a silver customer.

Static factors that may considered in reassessing customer segment may include for example one or more of changes in a customer s profile changes in a customer s set of the business changes in criteria applied by the business a person s anticipated actual influence for social media interactions based on the person s prior interactions with the contact center or web monitoring history etc. and others. For example a customer with a potential to have a high influence in his or her social media network may be promoted in his customer segment.

With respect to changes in the customer s profile the customer may have moved for example to a more prestigious geographic location may have recently bought a home may have changed his her marital status and or may have changed his job salary all of which may be considered as factors in moving the customer up or down in customer segment.

With respect to changes a customer s set of the business the enterprise may change the list of criteria attributes within the customer model that are used to assess customer segment. For example the enterprise may add or remove a klout score social media popularity influence as a factor to be considered and or remove a factor such as owns TV because such factors are no longer differentiators for giving different treatments.

With respect to changes in criteria applied by the business in determining customer segment the enterprise may have a new criteria rule for different customer segments gold silver and bronze based on regulations e.g. Basel for banking or re assessment of previous criteria e.g. a previously bad high risk living location may gradually become good or new statistical findings e.g. different correlation between sex age and car driving safety .

Exemplary dynamic factors that may be considered for reassessing customer segment may include without limitation new business offering s that might be of interest for the given customer cross up sell opportunities during a given interaction which may depend on interaction media channel the availability of e.g. highly skilled agent for the cross up sell offer being at the same time a good match for the given customer and other side effects of a given interaction such as visibility to a social media community or the like. With respect to new business offerings particular services or products with associated criteria for gold silver bronze customers may be identified during the current interaction as being of interest to the particular customer. For example the customer may expressly indicate interest in the service or product. The customer may be reassigned to a customer segment based on the identification of such product and or associated criteria. The re assignment may be for example a general re assignment or on a per sub set of offering.

With respect to cross up sell opportunities a conversation between an agent and customer may go well and could open an unexpected opportunity for a promising cross up sell but only if the customer were treated as belonging to a higher segment e.g. silver customer treated as gold . In this instance the customer may dynamically be reassigned to the higher customer segment.

With respect to availability of e.g. highly skilled agents for a cross up sell those agents may be reserved for treating calls from gold customers. A particular one of the reserved agents may be deemed to be a good fit for handling a current interaction with a particular silver customer. In such case the silver customer may be treated as a gold customer and the pending interaction for that customer may be routed to the reserved agent.

According to one embodiment a new interaction with the customer may trigger the re assessment of the customer segment based on one or more of the above described static and or dynamic factors prior to determining how the new interaction should be handled. While typically a main use case for dynamic customer segmentation is promotion by which the customer is promoted to a next higher customer segment one of more of these triggers typically dynamic reasons may be reasons for demoting a customer to some lower e.g. a next lower segmentation status than what is stored for the customer in his or her customer record. Dynamic reasons for demotion may include for example knowledge that the agents that are currently available to serve the customer are not a good fit given the current customer segment a high interaction rate with a customer who is poised to pass the given customer in ranking unavailability of a best fit media channel for a given customer and or others.

In one embodiment one result of a demotion in customer segment may be that a business opportunity associated with the higher customer segment is bypassed. Thus if an agent who is not a good fit for the current customer segment handles the interaction with the customer demoting the customer to a lower customer segment prior to such agent handling the interaction may prevent the agent from presenting a business opportunity which if presented by the particular agent would likely have not resulted in success.

According to one embodiment for an incoming interaction the routing strategy starts with the a priori re assessment of the customer segmentation in response to receipt of the incoming interaction. Depending on the outcome a treatment of the dynamically determined segment is then applied going forward for some time period over some configurable set of interactions and so forth. As described above the re assessment or initial assessment may consider one or more static factors unrelated to the given new interaction s and or one or more dynamic factors specific circumstances of a given interaction or combinations thereof.

In one implementation approach the customer segment evaluation prior to processing an outstanding interaction comprises computation of probabilities of all or a defined subset of possible business results of a given interaction. If the probability for a business outcome that would put the customer in a higher ranked segment is above a configured threshold then the interaction is treated in accordance with this higher ranked segment. Once the probabilities are processed the customer s service level is adjusted promoted or demoted accordingly. As noted above the promotion or demotion of the customer s service level may be on a per interaction basis or more long lasting. The service level adjustment may be applied both to inbound initiated by customer as well as outbound initiated by contact center interactions as well as to different media channels such as voice email chat web browsing and social media . Also once promoted or demoted to a customer segment first and second business objectives for the new customer segment may be evaluated in selecting an agent to handle the interaction. According to one embodiment an agent with a higher likelihood of success of handling the first business objective may be selected over a second agent with a lower likelihood of success of handling the second business objective even if the value of the first business objective is lower than the value of the second business objective.

The process starts and in step the processor detects a pending interaction associated with a customer and retrieves an existing customer segment service level assessment for the customer. According to one embodiment the detection of the pending interaction acts as a trigger to retrieve the customer segment service level. The existing segment information may be stored for example in a customer profile record for the customer.

At step the processor performs a test to determine whether a re assessment of the customer segmentation designation is to be performed. This test may be performed periodically or in real time upon detecting a particular occurrence such as for example upon receipt of a new interaction request. For example the test to determine need of re assessment may be performed by the routing server in response to receipt of a request from the call server to route a pending interaction.

If the outcome of the test at step is negative the routine returns and cycles. If however the outcome of the test at step is positive the routine continues at step to perform the re assessment in the manner described above. The re assessment may use one or more of the static or dynamic factors or some combination and may be based on anticipated outcome of the pending interaction that the customer is about to engage in. In this regard in performing the re assessment the processor may be configured to determine the chances of successfully achieving a business objective which may be a business objective for the current customer segment a next higher ranked segment and or lower ranked segment. According to one embodiment a rule or set of rules are invoked to re assess the customer segment service level. The rules may take into account the static and or dynamic factors in order to do the re assessment.

At step a test is performed to determine whether a service level adjustment is required. If not the routine returns to step . If however a customer segment service level adjustment is required as a result of the re assessment the routine continues at step to initiate the adjustment promotion to a given customer segment service level demotion to a given customer segment service level modification of an attribute of the existing service level etc. . The routine then continues at step to store the new customer segment service level. The re assessed customer segmentation data may be stored temporarily e.g. without modifying the customer segment information in the customer record . In another embodiment the current customer segmentation information in the customer record is replaced with the re assessed customer segmentation data.

According to one embodiment the adjustment of the customer segment service level causes an interaction with the customer e.g. atomic interaction or a task associated with a case to be processed differently e.g. with a different level of service different business objectives etc. than the processing prior to the adjustment. For example the skill set of the agent handling the interaction may differ priority in which the interaction is handled may differ business opportunities presented to the customer may differ and or the like.

According to one embodiment if the re assessment is temporary the customer reverts back to the customer segment that is stored in the customer record after the current interaction or a discrete number of interactions is over.

Typical current contact center interaction routing agent assignment assumes that the business objective BO to be achieved for the given interaction activity is analyzed and defined at an initial stage of interaction processing and fixed. Using the existing fixed BO the agent routing logic generally tries to find the best matching agent for the particular BO. If the best matching agent is not available the matching requirements are relaxed until an available agent is found. One of the drawbacks of this approach is that the BO e.g. an up cross sell might be addressed at a low quality level i.e. by a less qualified agent and thus might lead to customer dissatisfaction failure of the BO or reduced likelihood of future success with the particular customer .

According to one embodiment instead of relying upon a fixed BO during the agent assignment process an adaptive business objective routing strategy adjusts the business objective where necessary so as to minimize the opportunity for customer dissatisfaction in the event an appropriately skilled agent is not available to handle an inbound interaction. According to one embodiment the business objective may be composed of several elements or factors 1 a primary reason for the interaction typically as determined by a chosen interaction channel as potentially refined through an IVR dialog and 2 a set of business opportunities e.g. cross up sell offers .

According to one embodiment a reason for the interaction may be identified expressly or implicitly according to various mechanisms. For example a call reason may be inferred based on the customer s interaction with the IMR server . For example the IMR server may be configured to ask the customer an open ended question to elicit information on the reason for the call. For example the IMR server may be configured to ask How can I help you The customer may answer by speaking a reason for the call such as for example Am I eligible to upgrade my phone According to one embodiment the phrase uttered by the customer is analyzed by the speech analytics module and the call is then categorized into a particular category such as for example an upgrade eligibility category. In other embodiments the question asked by the IMR server is not open ended but limits the caller s response to for example a particular subject. Of course the IMR server may also be configured to function as a traditional IVR where the customer is provided a list of reasons for the call and the customer presses a number that matches his or her reason for the call. The call reason may be deduced from the particular number pressed by the customer.

In other embodiments a call reason may also be deduced based on other modalities such as for example the customer s interactions using other communication channels such as for example the Web retail shops email chat channels mobile applications social media channels and the like. Multi channel analytical solutions such as for example Genesys Text Analytics offered by Genesys Telecommunications Laboratories Inc. may be used to analyze a customer s previous engagement to identify a previous problem and or needs before connecting a current call to a contact center agent. For example a customer may be browsing a company web page relating to Flying with Pets Policy when the customer selects a speak with an agent option. Information on the page being browsed may be transmitted along with the request to speak with the agent and from the transmitted information it may be inferred that the customer s reason for wanting to speak with the agent is related to Flying with Pets. 

With respect to identifying business opportunities as part of identifying business objectives for the contact center such business opportunities may be identified based on criteria such as for example knowledge of the customer current business goals and the like. Exemplary business opportunities may include credit card upsell contract renewal upsell and or the like. According to one embodiment business opportunities for a particular customer are identified based on the customer profile and currently available matching business offerings. According to one embodiment business opportunities may be identified based upon customer segment identification which may be re assessed prior to handling the current interaction as discussed above .

According to one embodiment a purpose or goal of a business opportunity is to maximize business outcome and or customer satisfaction. A desired business outcome may vary from organization to organization and or from time period to time period. For example the organization may have a global target for a particular NPS net promoter score sales collection and or profit. More specific goals may then be set for different product lines business units and or the like. For example sales based business opportunities may have goals relating to conversion rate revenue and sales while service based opportunities may have goals relating to customer effort NPS and or the like.

According to one embodiment after a BO is identified that is deemed to be important to the contact center due to its potential to maximize business outcome and or customer satisfaction the routing logic tries to find a best matching agent for addressing both parts of the BO reason for the interaction and the identified business opportunity . According to one embodiment the assignment logic e.g. routing strategy logic searches for agents having the skill set e.g. qualification certification etc. identified for the BO. If no such agent can be found then according to one embodiment the BO is adjusted e.g. by selecting a second best BO e.g. with the same reason for the interaction but second best in terms of business outcome for the given customer. The second BO may be deemed to be of lesser importance to the contact center relative to the first BO due to its lesser potential to maximize business outcome and or customer satisfaction. The process is then repeated until an appropriate agent is found to handle the interaction according to the possibly adjusted BO.

According to one embodiment even if a suitable agent for handling the BO is identified evaluation of a likelihood of success of the particular agent with respect to the particular BO may be low or lower than the likelihood of success with respect to the second best BO. In this scenario the second best BO may be selected to be acted upon instead of the first best BO.

When the process completes the customer s profile is updated accordingly to reflect the actual BO used. At the next interaction opportunity i.e. the next time the customer interacts with the contact center a new attempt may be made to address the top BO.

In a representative implementation and given the interaction channels the customer profile and the set of offers a set of business objectives are identified for the customer in response to detecting a pending interaction with the customer. During the agent selection process the routing logic seeks to find a best matching agent for addressing both the primary reason for the interaction and the identified business opportunities and begins according to one embodiment with a first e.g. best or highest ranked business objective. If no agent is available to address both the interaction reason and the currently identified business objective a next best BO is used and so on until an appropriate agent is found to handle the interaction according to the potentially adjusted BO.

According to one particular implementation a rank Ris assigned to each pair of iBO I 1 . . . N and an available agent k 1 . . . M . The rank may be related for example to a business outcome e.g. profit that may be achieved from an interaction with certain BO by agents of certain skills. For example a BO projected to produce a profit of 100 may be ranked higher than another BO projected to product a profit of 80. According to one embodiment in addition to business outcome a probability of success of achieving the business outcome by the particular agent is also considered in assigning the rank to a BO agent pair. The probability of success may be determined for example based on the agent s historical performance with respect to the BO. According to one embodiment the rank may be calculated based on a calculation of an expected value as is commonly understood in the field of probability theory. In one embodiment the expected value is used as the rank.

According to one embodiment the expected value may be a weighted average of all possible business outcomes for the particular agent. In one example the expected value E X may be calculated and used as follows. Each BO has a value S in case of success. S may depend also on given customer and other factors. In some examples a loss value L may also be introduced. In most cases L is but may also be positive if just the attempt itself has a positive effect or negative if the failed attempt has negative impact on future business with the customer .

Each X BO Agent combination has a probability P of success depending on agent s abilities to sell the BO to the given customer in the given situation. Then 1 

According to one embodiment the expected value E X is calculated for all possible BO Agent combinations and the one with the highest value is chosen.

According to one embodiment all possible ranks and or expected values may be defined in advance or estimated during runtime e.g. based on recent contact history. For every interaction that is waiting to be routed to an agent a set of both business objectives and available agents are obtained. A best interaction agent match is then selected according to a maximum of ranks.

The resulting interaction between the selected agent and the BO as adjusted will then be presumed to occur to potentially maximize the business outcome while avoiding customer dissatisfaction.

The phrase business objective is not intended to be limited to any particular product implementation.

A generalization of this approach is to estimate a likelihood of achieving the given business objective by a particular agent for a current customer if the likelihood is below a configurable threshold then the process moves on to try to satisfy a next best business objective.

If all anticipated outcomes are below the threshold one or more possible follow up strategies may then be evaluated. These include without limitation selecting a business objective that is closest to the threshold applying one or more weights to the business objective and then making a selection routing based on the initial reason for the interaction without further adjustment according to business objective and so forth. All of these variant scenarios are within the described solution.

The routine begins and in step the processor detects a pending interaction with the customer e.g. atomic interaction or a task associated with a case and identifies or retrieves the business objective data as described above including for example the expressed or deduced reason for the interaction and a first identified business opportunity with respect to the customer.

In step the processor begins the agent selection process. In this regard the processor may interact with the statistics server for identifying availability of agents having skills that a commensurate to the identified business objective. The skill level of each of the identified agent may also be identified.

In step the processor determines whether agents that are fit to handle each of the identified business objectives have been found. Such fit may be based on not only availability of the agent but also how the skill level of the agent identified as having the appropriate skills compares to the skill level that is deemed to be appropriate for handling the particular business objective. If the skill level of the agent is above a threshold level identified for the business objective the agent may be deemed to be the right fit for the business objective.

If however the outcome of the test at step is negative no matching agent for addressing the current business objective can be located the routine continues at step to identify a next business objective. The next business objective may identify a second business opportunity with respect to the customer.

Once the set of business objectives and matching one or more agents are identified the process proceeds to select a BO agent pair based on an assigned rank of the BO agent pair as depicted with respect to . In this regard in step the processor selects a first BO agent pair and in step assigns a rank which could be just the expected value to the pair. According to one embodiment the rank may be based on identification of a business outcome and probability of success by the particular agent in achieving the business outcome. According to one embodiment an expected value for the business outcome is calculated and used to assign the rank.

According to one example a first BO may have an expected business outcome of 100 while a second BO may have an expected business outcome of 80. However a first agent identified as a match for handling the first BO may be identified based on past performance in handling the first BO as being 40 successful for the first BO. A second agent identified as a match for handling the second BO may be identified based on the second agent s performance in handling the second BO as being 80 successful for the second BO. According to one embodiment the process assigns a rank to the second BO agent pair that is higher than the rank assigned to the first BO agent pair. In this regard the process deems it more valuable to pursue the second BO although not the best in terms of business outcome instead of the first BO.

In step a determination is made as to whether there are more BO agent pairs to rank. If the answer is NO the processor evaluates the assigned ranks and in step selects the BO agent pair with the highest rank.

In step the pending interaction is routed to the agent of the selected BO agent pair. In this regard the call routing server may transmit instructions to the call server identifying an address of the agent device to which the interaction is to be routed.

In step the agent is prompted to pursue the business objective. For example the deduced reason for the interaction may be displayed on the agent device and the agent may upon seeing such reason address the call reason with the customer. The processor may also display a prompt to present a business opportunity included in the BO to the customer along with scripts to help guide the agent in presenting such business opportunity. As a person of skill in the art should appreciate the business opportunity that is presented by the particular agent may not necessarily be the one with the highest yielding business outcome.

According to one embodiment the business objectives may be associated with a particular customer segment. In this regard the customer may first be dynamically reassigned to a particular customer segment prior to determining which business objectives to consider in selecting an appropriate agent.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to case routing as opposed to atomic interaction routing. In one embodiment case based routing may be seen as taking a holistic view on the entire case by considering the past steps a next step and anticipated future steps of the case and selecting an agent based on this holistic view. In this regard a routing routine attempts to select an agent who is familiar with the pre context of the case has skills to perform anticipated follow up processing steps and or one that is engaged with potentially related other interactions with the given customer. In this regard the selected agent is one who is deemed to be a good fit for the entire case or at least for a certain subset of tasks associated with the case.

According to one embodiment customer segmentation may also be adjusted proactively in advance of handling one or more steps tasks of a particular case. The mechanism may be similar to adjusting customer segmentation for atomic interaction routing that is described above.

According to one embodiment the agent that is selected to route the one or more steps of a particular case may be based on business objectives of the contact center enterprise. According to one embodiment the agent who is has the highest probability of maximizing the business outcome while avoiding customer dissatisfaction is selected as described in further detail above.

An integration of this type allows enterprises to leverage the synergy of two critical functions namely the management of customer data through the CRM system and the management of real time interactions through the contact center . Through a seamless integration of CRM and contact center solutions enterprises can offer their customers choice of access options such as e mail fax Web chat work item and traditional voice. Customer interactions are handled in real time and they are automatically prioritized matched and assigned to the best available resources e.g. based on the customer need history class of service and business rules. Preferably the contact center solution provides contact center software predefined routing strategies and templates installation and ongoing support. To this end the platform preferably provides SIP based functionality to enable agents to be located wherever they are needed thereby freeing the contact center from PBX constraints business based interaction routing to enable customers to be connected to the right agent preferably using routing templates configured to the customer s business needs and real time and historical reporting to enable tracking of customer service .

The above described platform is extensible to enable an additional routing strategy that is referred to herein as case routing. This routing strategy is described below using an example implementation.

Preferably the integrated system e.g. based on the Siebel desktop although this is not a limitation uses a single agent interface for both CRM and customer interaction management. A single agent login to the desktop enables the agent access to embedded e mail chat and work in the Siebel desktop removing the need to toggle between applications. The approach provides for a single point of real time management for inbound call handling e.g. through the Siebel CRM interface. To facilitate the techniques of this disclosure in one embodiment the contact center routing mechanism leverages Siebel CRM data Customer or case records that preferably are attached to every interaction voice e mail work item etc. including transfers between agents reducing handling time. Other CRM systems may use other nomenclature in lieu of a case and the techniques should be viewed as applying to such other CRM based environments irrespective of the particular nomenclature adopted. Preferably imported and real time updates of CRM contact lists drive contact center based outbound campaigns thereby increasing transaction opportunities and upload of campaign results. The integrated system also provides for real time intelligent routing for content management for all types of content including without limitation documents faxes web forms images etc. as well as real time workflow optimization such as service requests customer orders fulfillment and provisioning. By providing customer center agents with a complete view of customer data more personalized cross channel conversations are enabled. The integrated approach facilitates real time handling of customer requests preferably based on customer class of service needs history and profile. The unified desktop approach also greatly reduces operating costs and increases customer responsiveness.

The contact center may provide an application programming interface API or SDK Software Development Kit by which the CRM provider integrates the CRM system. For example the contact center may provide a Customer Interaction Management CIM platform that exposes scalable software modules with service enabled APIs that allow third parties to integrate CRM systems services and software. Applications communicate through an abstraction layer or through Web services or through low level fine grained interfaces. As described above and in an alternative embodiment the CRM system is part of the contact center itself.

In the prior art the contact center implements one or more types of agent based routing such as skills based best available agent routing. According to this routing strategy this prior technique is enhanced to take into consideration case based information. In case based routing the decision about which agent should receive a particular interaction for processing within the context of a contact center is determined at least in part on a case record e.g. in an CRM embodiment associated with a CRM sourced interaction. Thus CRM system or server models a customer support interaction between one of its customers and the system as a case. A case or ticket or work item has an associated case record having given information identifying the case its type an anticipated workflow through a set of defined or ordered steps to potential resolution anticipated timing escalation paths and the like. Depending on the CRM system from which the case originates a case may be associated with a particular template depending on the nature of the customer support issue.

In case routing a case record or information therein associated with a case is used to determine which agent in a set of agents in the contact center should be identified to undertake additional work processing of the case. As will be seen a best or target agent typically is selected based on one or more factors such as an identity of a particular next interaction or step in the processing of the case as defined by the case workflow one or more anticipated future interactions for the given case and that should preferably be handled by a same agent the existence of one or more previously performed interactions for the case including whether any such interactions have been re opened remaining completion time for the case and the like. Preferably when the case routing strategy is implemented an entire case record or some material portion thereof is taken into account in determining which agent of a set of agents should be identified as a target for an inbound contact associated with the case.

In case routing and instead of routing individual interactions e.g. voice calls chats e mails etc. to an appropriately skilled best available agent once an interaction is associated with a particular case the routing of the interaction is influenced by one or more case based parameters. Moreover preferably what gets routed is the case itself as opposed to the interaction associated therewith . As a simple example scenario assume because of the nature of the case some kind of future interaction might be needed with a customer where that future interaction is triggered at a future certain and or upon timeout of a case idle time or some other trigger . With case based routing once that trigger occurs the case is routed to the appropriate agent or to his or her queue with the right skill and availability and the agent then makes the necessary communication with the customer e.g. by phone text email chat or the like . With case routing the case is pushed for handling to the agent proactively when the case based trigger occurs and this reduces the likelihood that the agent will ignore the interaction over some other interaction that the agent might desire to handle first although of course there will be situations wherein some other assigned interaction has a higher priority than the case . With case routing preferably cases are pushed to the agents or their queues in the order they are submitted or otherwise based on the case triggers or based on other priorities and are routed to the agents with the appropriate skills to handle those cases of that type. Preferably and because case based routing involves case based parameters when an agent user receives a case absent more higher priority interactions that must be worked first he or she generally works the case in lieu of electing to do some other interaction. Thus in case based routing preferably a case is provided to the agent by being pushed for immediate processing or otherwise being pushed into the agent s workbin for being immediately pulled for handling by the agent. Whether characterized as push or pull the described model used in case routing ensures that workflow associated with a CRM case is enforced rigorously and it ensures that the target agent works proactively to resolve the case or to move the case to another agent or agents who can do so .

With case routing agents can communicate and otherwise interact with one another and preferably multiple agents are each able to view the case concurrently. If an agent decides he or she will transfer a case to some other agent or entity assuming the receiving agent can be shown to be a good fit preferably the receiving agent entity has the option to accept or reject the case and preferably cases can be escalated with a priority so that they are worked first. If a case is updated preferably an update is pushed to the agent that either handled the first interaction or is still working the case.

The case routing technique may also be implemented in the context of assignment logic that uses a reservation approach wherein the logic performs arbitration among multiple request for some agent based on priority where priority in turn may be based on interaction age due time and the like.

According to this disclosure it is assumed that there is a mechanism e.g. an API a Web service some other request response protocol or the like for passing information between the CRM system and the contact center server that is responsible for contact center agent selection. A case is opened in the CRM system in the usual manner when an end user customer opens a ticket. A case has an associated case identifier caseID and it is associated with a data record sometimes referred to herein as a case record. As noted above typically the case record is a construct associated with the CRM system and identifies the case its type an anticipated workflow through a set of defined or ordered steps to potential resolution anticipated timing escalation paths and the like. The case record may include the contact history for the case if the case is being re opened from an earlier interaction. More generally the case record is an object or a case object in an object oriented database system associated with the CRM. The contact center typically includes a contact center server API for external case management to link to interactions both active and historical in the contact center environment.

Preferably the contact center reporting systems or sub systems report on how cases are handled. Reports may include without limitation how many cases have been worked closed resolved are waiting for information and the like as well as how many of each state a particular agent worked. Case routing also may provide more granular reporting than conventional reporting of agent interactions. Thus for example when a case is pushed to an agent and the agent accepts it the time that the agent works on this case can be monitored and reported. Once the agent returns the case e.g. by closing or resolving it by seeking more information etc. the system notes the time incurred and a new case may then be pushed to the agent. By monitoring handling times and assuming deterministic cases with fixed processing steps the contact center management obtains a view into how long particular agents take to handle a case and if appropriate can institute training and other remedial actions to address deficiencies. The reports may also indicate which agents are working the hardest cases which agents are handling many cases and the nature of those cases etc. The reports may also indicate when an agent consults another agent with respect to the case if many agents are consulting with a particular agent this may indicate that the consulted agent has the most relevant knowledge about the case type and or that other agents need appropriate training. When cases are transferred between or among agents such transfers are also reported once again indicating the possibility for the need for additional agent training. Escalations preferably are reported as well thereby helping management understand when other processes need to be changed depending on the nature and extent of those escalations .

Preferably an agent that receives a case and being an owner of a new case can access the case history associated with the caseID. Preferably only the agent that is actively working the case i.e. has an active window open and in focus is reported as time against the case. This allows a first agent to work the case for some time period and then not lose credit for such work when the case is transferred to a second agent. The second agent gets the time reported only for the time he or she is actively working the case i.e. has an active window open etc. . Preferably the CRM records also reflect the same activities by each agent or user that works the case.

Preferably case routing does not impact or change case history. Thus irrespective of the identity of the agent who last works the case all agents who worked the case preferably receive credit for their work. By making sure all time is accurately recorded e.g. by monitoring open and in focus activity windows on the agent desktops the contact center and or CRM provides a comprehensive report of time spent on each case the identity of the agents users that worked the case and any issues trends anomalies etc. identified.

Case routing and associated reporting in this manner can expose valuable information about an agent and whether his or her perceived value is backed by actual data. As noted above in case routing agents receive cases to handle based on case specific parameters and thus they cannot necessarily pick and choose their interactions the case routing data provides a much more nuanced and accurate view of an agent s activities. Thus an agent may have a very high number of transfers and consults or a low close rate etc. and such data even if associated with what otherwise appears to be highly efficient agent may indicate that the agent is actually having problems or perhaps is not working up to his or her potential actual or perceived . The information may also indicate that the case routing logic needs to be adjusted. Conversely case routing and associated reporting can also show that an agent that was previously considered only fair e.g. for having a low number of closed interactions is now on the receiving end of transfers and consults for many of the cases if not the hardest cases. The agent has been closed the hard to work interactions that other agents had refused to pull from the work queue however now that the cases pushed based on case based parameters other agents are leaning on this person so that they can work the cases they traditionally avoided.

Of course there are merely representative examples but they show how case routing can provide very useful information about agent work habits that was not otherwise available when interactions are routed to agents in the above described model. Preferably the agent monitoring and case reporting statistics are generated in an automated manner these records may be parsed once again by automated systems to generate output reports that identify e.g. rank agents by their case handling capabilities.

More generally case routing provides advantages over atomic interaction routing by enabling the interaction to be handled by an agent that is familiar with the pre context or who has the ability to perform anticipated follow up processing steps or who is engaged with potentially related other interactions with the given customer or the like.

Although there is no limitation regarding when case routing may be implemented typically it may be done more often as a back office function while atomic interactions are more likely handling by the contact center. If the contact center is operating less efficiently it may be desired to use case routing to help the contact center work off any backlog or otherwise reduce delay.

According to one example of implementing case routing a worker in an insurance company may open a case record in the CRM system . The case record may be for example for handling an insurance claim for a car accident involving the customer. According to one embodiment the case record identifies a workflow of anticipated steps to be taken in handling an insurance claim. For example the steps may include obtaining details of the accident determining faulty party authorizing the customer take the car to a bodyshop scheduling a claims adjuster to go to the bodyshop to inspect the car getting a report from the claims adjuster authorizing the bodyshop to fix the car and making payment to the bodyshop. As a particular step of the workflow is completed information about the worker handling the particular step date and time in which the particular step was handled and the like may be tracked in the case record.

According to one embodiment the various steps of the workflow may be handled by one or more workers agents of the enterprise. In this regard an autonomous task is generated at a particular step of the workflow that requires agent action and the task is routed to an agent determined to have the skill set for handling the interaction. According to one embodiment instead of finding an agent with the skill set for handling an immediate next step of the workflow an analysis is performed of one or more future steps of the workflow following the immediate next step for determining skill sets for handling each of the one or more future steps at the same time that the determination is made with respect to the immediate next step. The processor may be configured with logic to determine whether a single agent exists with skills to handle more than one of the identified steps. Again the determination is made concurrently for all the identified steps. In this manner continuity may be maintained where possible in terms of agents handling the case. Thus for example if Agent with skill A is available for handling step 1 but Agent with skills A and B is available to handle steps 1 and 2 Agent may be selected over Agent . Of course the agent may most likely handle the two steps at different points in time. Moreover the agent may initially just receive a task for handling the immediate next step in the workflow and may or may not know that he has been assigned to the subsequent steps as well. Yet in some embodiments the agent is informed of the assignment of the subsequent steps. Tasks for the subsequent steps may be generated concurrently with the generating of the task for the immediate next step or at a later time. The generated tasks may be concurrently routed to the agent or routed at different times. If a task for a subsequent step is routed at a later time the processor detects that an agent has already been selected and thus routes the subsequent task without invoking for example logic for making skill determinations for identifying a best agent for handling the subsequent task.

According to embodiments of the present invention a complete case record may be considered when selecting best matching agent for routing a case record 

If multiple agents are identified as being equality suitable for handling a plurality of upcoming workflow steps the agent that is ultimately selected may depend for example on the skill level s of the identified agents. An agent with a higher skill level may be preferred instead of an agent with a lower skill level.

According to one embodiment as discussed above instead of routing an autonomous task to the selected agent the related case record is routed for giving the agent context of where in the workflow the current step belongs and for understanding the history surrounding the case. According to one embodiment routing of the case may be enabled by identifying a caseID in the task that is routed to the agent. The caseID may then be used to retrieve the case data from the CRM system.

According to one embodiment the routing of an interaction or task to an agent may be triggered automatically based on parameters set for the case and or parameters surrounding one or more steps of the workflow. For example tasks may be automatically triggered based on a date time setting. Tasks may also be triggered based on an amount of time elapsed between two or more steps of the workflow or since completion of a last workflow step. In this regard the processor monitors for a trigger event and in response to detecting occurrence of such trigger event automatically generates and transmits a task associated with the trigger event.

As noted above according to a feature of this disclosure one or preferably multiple ones of the above described routing strategies are implemented concurrently and or in sequence. illustrates various scenarios.

As an example scenario a dynamic customer segmentation is performed initially followed by the adaptive business objective routing strategy .

Another example scenario b begins with adaptive business objective routing followed by case routing .

As a second example scenario c dynamic customer segmentation is performed initially following by case routing .

Another example scenario d involves concurrent and or sequential implementation of dynamic customer segmentation adaptive business objective routing and case routing .

The sequence or ordering shown above strategy then strategy then strategy is not intended to be limiting. Any sequence or ordering may be implemented depending on the use case. As can be seen in this drawing the one or more routing strategies herein are designed to augment other routing strategies implemented in the agent assignment mechanism.

A customer may use a web based configuration tool or other interface mechanism to provision or otherwise configure a custom routing strategy using the above identified schemes either alone or in combination with existing agent assignment mechanisms such as those based on availability occupancy static customer segment static priority required skills to handle an interaction of a given media type agent capacity customer interaction history e.g. last agent routing and other criteria such as up or cross sell opportunities agent skills and the like.

While the above description sets forth a particular order of operations performed by certain embodiments it should be understood that such order is exemplary as alternative embodiments may perform the operations in a different order combine certain operations overlap certain operations or the like. References in the specification to a given embodiment indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic.

While the disclosed subject matter has been described in the context of a method or process the subject disclosure also relates to apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computing entity selectively activated or reconfigured by a stored computer program stored. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but is not limited to any type of disk including an optical disk a CD ROM and a magnetic optical disk flash memory a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM a magnetic or optical card or any type of non transitory media suitable for storing electronic instructions.

While given components of the system have been described separately one of ordinary skill will appreciate that some of the functions may be combined or shared in given instructions program sequences code portions and the like.

As used herein agents may be assigned explicitly e.g. by an agent assignment mechanism dedicated to that purpose or implicitly e.g. by an IVR.

Each of the various servers controllers switches gateways engines and or modules collectively referred to as servers in the afore described figures may be a process or thread running on one or more processors in one or more computing devices e.g. executing computer program instructions and interacting with other system components for performing the various functionalities described herein. The computer program instructions are stored in a memory which may be implemented in a computing device using a standard memory device such as for example a random access memory RAM . The computer program instructions may also be stored in other non transitory computer readable media such as for example a CD ROM flash drive or the like. Also a person of skill in the art should recognize that a computing device may be implemented via firmware e.g. an application specific integrated circuit hardware or a combination of software firmware and hardware. A person of skill in the art should also recognize that the functionality of various computing devices may be combined or integrated into a single computing device or the functionality of a particular computing device may be distributed across one or more other computing devices without departing from the scope of the exemplary embodiments of the present invention. A server may be a software module which may also simply be referred to as a module. The set of modules in the contact center may include servers and other modules.

The various servers may be located on a computing device on site at the same physical location as the agents of the contact center or may be located off site or in the cloud in a geographically different location e.g. in a remote data center connected to the contact center via a network such as the Internet. In addition some of the servers may be located in a computing device on site at the contact center while others may be located in a computing device off site or servers providing redundant functionality may be provided both via on site and off site computing devices to provide greater fault tolerance. In some embodiments of the present invention functionality provided by servers located on computing devices off site may be accessed and provided over a virtual private network VPN as if such servers were on site or the functionality may be provided using a software as a service SaaS to provide functionality over the internet using various protocols such as by exchanging data using encoded in extensible markup language XML or JavaScript Object notation JSON .

The central processing unit is any logic circuitry that responds to and processes instructions fetched from the main memory unit . It may be implemented for example in an integrated circuit in the form of a microprocessor microcontroller or graphics processing unit GPU or in a field programmable gate array FPGA or application specific integrated circuit ASIC . The main memory unit may be one or more memory chips capable of storing data and allowing any storage location to be directly accessed by the central processing unit . As shown in the central processing unit communicates with the main memory via a system bus . As shown in the central processing unit may also communicate directly with the main memory via a memory port .

A wide variety of I O devices may be present in the computing device . Input devices include one or more keyboards mice trackpads trackballs microphones and drawing tablets. Output devices include video display devices speakers and printers. An I O controller as shown in may control the I O devices. The I O controller may control one or more I O devices such as a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or optical pen.

Referring again to the computing device may support one or more removable media interfaces such as a floppy disk drive a CD ROM drive a DVD ROM drive tape drives of various formats a USB port a Secure Digital or COMPACT FLASH memory card port or any other device suitable for reading data from read only media or for reading data from or writing data to read write media. An I O device may be a bridge between the system bus and a removable media interface .

The removable media interface may for example be used for installing software and programs. The computing device may further comprise a storage device such as one or more hard disk drives or hard disk drive arrays for storing an operating system and other related software and for storing application software programs. Optionally a removable media interface may also be used as the storage device. For example the operating system and the software may be run from a bootable medium for example a bootable CD.

In some embodiments the computing device may comprise or be connected to multiple display devices which each may be of the same or different type and or form. As such any of the I O devices and or the I O controller may comprise any type and or form of suitable hardware software or combination of hardware and software to support enable or provide for the connection to and use of multiple display devices by the computing device . For example the computing device may include any type and or form of video adapter video card driver and or library to interface communicate connect or otherwise use the display devices . In one embodiment a video adapter may comprise multiple connectors to interface to multiple display devices . In other embodiments the computing device may include multiple video adapters with each video adapter connected to one or more of the display devices . In some embodiments any portion of the operating system of the computing device may be configured for using multiple display devices . In other embodiments one or more of the display devices may be provided by one or more other computing devices connected for example to the computing device via a network. These embodiments may include any type of software designed and constructed to use the display device of another computing device as a second display device for the computing device . One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize and appreciate the various ways and embodiments that a computing device may be configured to have multiple display devices

A computing device of the sort depicted in and may operate under the control of an operating system which controls scheduling of tasks and access to system resources. The computing device may be running any operating system any embedded operating system any real time operating system any open source operating system any proprietary operating system any operating systems for mobile computing devices or any other operating system capable of running on the computing device and performing the operations described herein.

The computing device may be any workstation desktop computer laptop or notebook computer server machine handheld computer mobile telephone or other portable telecommunication device media playing device gaming system mobile computing device or any other type and or form of computing telecommunications or media device that is capable of communication and that has sufficient processor power and memory capacity to perform the operations described herein. In some embodiments the computing device may have different processors operating systems and input devices consistent with the device.

In other embodiments the computing device is a mobile device such as a Java enabled cellular telephone or personal digital assistant PDA a smart phone a digital audio player or a portable media player. In some embodiments the computing device comprises a combination of devices such as a mobile phone combined with a digital audio player or portable media player.

As shown in the central processing unit may comprise multiple processors P P P P and may provide functionality for simultaneous execution of instructions or for simultaneous execution of one instruction on more than one piece of data. In some embodiments the computing device may comprise a parallel processor with one or more cores. In one of these embodiments the computing device is a shared memory parallel device with multiple processors and or multiple processor cores accessing all available memory as a single global address space. In another of these embodiments the computing device is a distributed memory parallel device with multiple processors each accessing local memory only. In still another of these embodiments the computing device has both some memory which is shared and some memory which may only be accessed by particular processors or subsets of processors. In still even another of these embodiments the central processing unit comprises a multicore microprocessor which combines two or more independent processors into a single package e.g. into a single integrated circuit IC . In one exemplary embodiment depicted in the computing device includes at least one central processing unit and at least one graphics processing unit .

In some embodiments a central processing unit provides single instruction multiple data SIMD functionality e.g. execution of a single instruction simultaneously on multiple pieces of data. In other embodiments several processors in the central processing unit may provide functionality for execution of multiple instructions simultaneously on multiple pieces of data MIMD . In still other embodiments the central processing unit may use any combination of SIMD and MIMD cores in a single device.

A computing device may be one of a plurality of machines connected by a network or it may comprise a plurality of machines so connected. shows an exemplary network environment. The network environment comprises one or more local machines also generally referred to as local machine s client s client node s client machine s client computer s client device s endpoint s or endpoint node s in communication with one or more remote machines also generally referred to as server machine s or remote machine s via one or more networks . In some embodiments a local machine has the capacity to function as both a client node seeking access to resources provided by a server machine and as a server machine providing access to hosted resources for other clients . Although only two clients and three server machines are illustrated in there may in general be an arbitrary number of each. The network may be a local area network LAN e.g. a private network such as a company Intranet a metropolitan area network MAN or a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or another public network or a combination thereof.

The computing device may include a network interface to interface to the network through a variety of connections including but not limited to standard telephone lines local area network LAN or wide area network WAN links broadband connections wireless connections or a combination of any or all of the above. Connections may be established using a variety of communication protocols. In one embodiment the computing device communicates with other computing devices via any type and or form of gateway or tunneling protocol such as Secure Socket Layer SSL or Transport Layer Security TLS . The network interface may comprise a built in network adapter such as a network interface card suitable for interfacing the computing device to any type of network capable of communication and performing the operations described herein. An I O device may be a bridge between the system bus and an external communication bus.

According to one embodiment the network environment of may be a virtual network environment where the various components of the network are virtualized. For example the various machines may be virtual machines implemented as a software based computer running on a physical machine. The virtual machines may share the same operating system. In other embodiments different operating system may be run on each virtual machine instance. According to one embodiment a hypervisor type of virtualization is implemented where multiple virtual machines run on the same host physical machine each acting as if it has its own dedicated box. Of course the virtual machines may also run on different host physical machines.

Other types of virtualization is also contemplated such as for example the network e.g. via Software Defined Networking SDN . Functions such as functions of the session border controller and other types of functions may also be virtualized such as for example via Network Functions Virtualization NFV .

It is the Applicant s intention to cover by claims all such uses of the invention and those changes and modifications which could be made to the embodiments of the invention herein chosen for the purpose of disclosure without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The particular manner in which template details are presented to the user may also differ. Thus the present embodiments of the invention should be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive the scope of the invention to be indicated by claims and their equivalents rather than the foregoing description.

