---

title: User login methods, devices, and systems
abstract: A user login method for use in a terminal is provided. The method includes: receiving an automatic login request; acquiring a terminal identifier of the terminal; sending, to a server, a query request about a user account associated with the terminal identifier and a password corresponding to the user account, the query request including the terminal identifier; receiving, from the server, a query result based on the query request; selecting a user account from the query result and a password corresponding to the selected user account, if the query result is not empty; and sending, to the server, the selected user account and the corresponding password, for the selected user account to login after authentication by the server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09602502&OS=09602502&RS=09602502
owner: TENCENT TECHNOLOGY (SHENZHEN) COMPANY LIMITED
number: 09602502
owner_city: Shenzhen
owner_country: CN
publication_date: 20140701
---
This international application claims priority to Chinese Patent Application No. 201310275044.0 filed Jul. 2 2013 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure generally relates to the field of mobile communication technology and more particularly to user login methods devices and systems.

With the functional enhancement of mobile terminals popularization of wireless networks and the abundance of Internet information more and more users of mobile terminals such as mobile phones are connecting to the Internet through wireless connections to use software applications or websites and communicate using instant messaging IM or other communications applications. Each of these applications or websites typically requires the user to enter a password or other authentication information in order to access the user s account and use the application or website. Although users often use the same mobile terminal to log into these various applications and websites users must input account information and or authentication information each time the user attempts to access something which increases the user s input operations on the terminal and may affect standby time of the mobile terminal.

According to a first aspect of the present disclosure there is provided a user login method for use in a terminal comprising receiving an automatic login request acquiring a terminal identifier of the terminal sending to a server a query request about a user account associated with the terminal identifier and a password corresponding to the user account the query request including the terminal identifier receiving from the server a query result based on the query request selecting a user account from the query result and a password corresponding to the selected user account if the query result is not empty and sending to the server the selected user account and the corresponding password for the selected user account to login after authentication by the server.

According to a second aspect of the present disclosure there is provided a terminal comprising a processor and a memory for storing instructions executable by the processor wherein the processor is configured to receive an automatic login request acquire a terminal identifier of the terminal send to a server a query request about a user account associated with the terminal identifier and a password corresponding to the user account the query request including the terminal identifier receive from the server a query result based on the query request select a user account from the query result and a password corresponding to the selected user account if the query result is not empty and send to the server the selected user account and the corresponding password for the selected user account to login after authentication by the server.

According to a third aspect of the present disclosure there is provided a user login system comprising a server and a mobile terminal wherein the mobile terminal is configured to receive an automatic login request acquire a terminal identifier of the mobile terminal and send a query request about a user account associated with the terminal identifier and a password corresponding to the user account the query request including the terminal identifier the server is configured to perform based on the terminal identifier a query of a user account associated with the terminal identifier and a password corresponding to the user account and return the query result to the mobile terminal the mobile terminal is further configured to receive the query result select a user account from the query result and the password corresponding to the selected user account if the query result is not empty and send the selected user account and the corresponding password to the server and the server is further configured to perform user login authentication according to the selected user account and the corresponding password.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

Reference will now be made in detail to exemplary embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. The following description refers to the accompanying drawings in which the same numbers in different drawings represent the same or similar elements unless otherwise represented. The implementations set forth in the following description of exemplary embodiments do not represent all implementations consistent with the inventions. Instead they are merely examples of apparatuses and methods consistent with aspects related to the inventions as recited in the appended claims.

In step S the mobile terminal receives an automatic login request from a user. For example the mobile terminal receives the automatic login request though a website or a software application installed on the mobile terminal e.g. an instant messaging IM application a microblog a WeChat application a networking space etc. The automatic login request includes a target server identifier which can be the identifier of a server for the software or for the website. The server stores binding information regarding a terminal identifier of the mobile terminal a user account associated with the terminal identifier and a password of the user account. The server can perform a query of the user account associated with the terminal identifier and the password of the user account from the binding information according to the terminal identifier.

In exemplary embodiments the password is an encrypted password. If the mobile terminal is a mobile phone the terminal identifier can be a serial number an international mobile equipment identity IMEI a mobile equipment identifier MEI or a wireless media access control MAC address etc. of the mobile phone. A mobile phone number can also be used as the terminal identifier.

For example the binding information regarding the terminal identifier the user account and the password can be stored as shown in Table 1 below.

In step S the mobile terminal acquires the terminal identifier. Different mobile terminals may acquire terminal identifiers in different manners. For example if the mobile terminal s serial number is used as the terminal identifier which is generally provided on the back of the mobile terminal and stored in a primary memory of the mobile terminal the mobile terminal can acquire its serial number through calling a predefined application programming interface API function.

In step S the mobile terminal sends a query request about a user account associated with the terminal identifier and the password corresponding to the user account to the server. For example the query request includes the terminal identifier of the mobile terminal. Because the server may store binding information regarding the terminal identifier of the mobile terminal the user account and the password of the user account the server can perform a query of the user account associated with the terminal identifier and the password corresponding to the user account. For example assuming that the terminal identifier acquired in step S is A000002EDD007E as shown in Table 1 the server can perform a query based on the terminal identifier A000002EDD007E and find that the user account corresponding to the software or website and associated with the mobile terminal is 78394015 and the encrypted password of the user account is 385ad8ce83be99fle6b3410b8ad7e4e7. 

In step S the mobile terminal receives a query result from the server. For example the server returns the query result to the mobile terminal and the mobile terminal can perform user login authentication after receiving the query result.

In step S if the query result is not empty the mobile terminal selects the user account and the password corresponding to the selected user account from the query result. In the illustrated embodiment the server acquires the user account and the encrypted password corresponding to the user account based on the terminal identifier. If the query result is not empty the query result will include the user account and password information. Accordingly the mobile terminal can select the user account and the corresponding password from the query result.

In one exemplary embodiment an account selection control element can be created in the mobile terminal prior to selecting the user account and corresponding password from the query result and is configured to receive a user account selected by a user from the query result.

Accordingly the mobile terminal detects an account selection signal generated from the account selection control element and acquires the selected user account from the account selection control element. The mobile terminal further acquires the password corresponding to the selected user account from the query result.

Referring back to in step S the mobile terminal sends the selected user account and the corresponding password to the server so that the server can authenticate login of the selected user account.

The method can reduce the user s input operation thereby extending a standby time of the mobile terminal and saving energy. Moreover because multiple software applications or websites may share the same server and the same set of user account and password the method can avoid using a process communication to detect user accounts of other software applications or websites which can reduce a workload of the mobile terminal and further extend the standby time of the mobile terminal.

In step S the mobile terminal sends a query request about a user account associated with the terminal identifier and a password corresponding to the user account to the server.

In step S the mobile terminal determines whether the query result is empty and if yes performs step S otherwise performs step S. If the query result is empty it indicates that the mobile terminal does not bind with a user account or that the query fails.

In step S the mobile terminal prompts the user to select an existing user account from the query result or to input a new user account in a login interface. Accordingly the user can login by directly using the bound user account. As a result the user s input operations can be reduced. If the user wants to login by using an unbound user account or another user is using the user s mobile terminal to login the other user s user account the mobile terminal can further display a pop up control element for popping up a new user login control element in the login interface and the new user login control element is configured to receive a new user account and a corresponding password.

For example are diagrams of a login interface according to an exemplary embodiment. Referring to the login interface includes a first button e.g. a Quick Login button for automatic login by the direct use of a bound user account and a second button e.g. a Login with New User Account button for login by using a user account that is not bound with the mobile terminal. When the user clicks the Quick Login button as shown in the mobile terminal displays the account selection control element as described above. When the user clicks the Login with New User Account button the mobile terminal displays a new user account login control element .

Referring back to in step S the mobile terminal determines whether the user selects the existing user account and if yes performs step S otherwise performs steps S. For example when the user clicks the Quick Login button the mobile terminal performs step S otherwise performs step S.

In step S the mobile terminal displays the new user account login control element. For example when the user clicks the Login with Other User Account button the mobile terminal displays the new user account login control element .

In step S the mobile terminal acquires a user account and a corresponding password inputted by the user. For example when the user clicks the Login button in the login interface the mobile terminal acquires the user account from the corresponding input box and acquires the password inputted by the user from the corresponding input box. In one exemplary embodiment the mobile terminal encrypts the acquired password.

In step S the mobile terminal sends the acquired user account and the acquired password for login authentication by the server.

In step S the mobile terminal determines whether the login authentication is successful and if yes performs step S otherwise performs step S.

In step S the mobile terminal sends the terminal identifier the user account and the corresponding password to the server.

In steps S S the user account is not bound with the mobile terminal and the server does not store binding information regarding the terminal identifier of the mobile terminal the user account and the password. To enable the user account to realize user login authentication on the mobile terminal the mobile terminal sends the terminal identifier the user account and the corresponding password to the server for the server to create new binding information that includes the terminal identifier the user account and the corresponding password. This procedure is not mandatory and an option can be provided in the login interface for the user to choose whether or not bind the user account with the mobile terminal.

In step S if the mobile terminal determines that the user selects an existing user account the mobile terminal acquires the selected user account and the password corresponding to the selected user account. For example when the user clicks the Quick Login button the mobile terminal displays the account selection control element . When the user further selects an icon corresponding to the user account A the mobile terminal acquires the user account A. Because the query result includes the password corresponding to the user account A the mobile terminal can search the query result for the password corresponding to the user account A.

In step S the mobile terminal sends the selected user account and the corresponding password for login authentication by the server.

In step S the mobile terminal receives a result of the login authentication returned from the server.

In the method when the user account is not bound with the mobile terminal or the user uses a new user account to login from the mobile terminal the user account can be bound with the mobile terminal which makes the use operation convenient increases a subsequent automatic login probability from the mobile terminal and thus further extends the standby time of the mobile terminal.

The device may also include an account and password acquisition unit configured to select from the query result a user account and a password corresponding to the selected user account if the query result is not empty a login information transmission unit configured to send the user account and the password to the server.

In exemplary embodiments if the query result is not empty the account and password acquisition unit displays an account selection control element in a login interface the account selection control element being configured to receive a user selection of a user account in the query result. The account and password acquisition unit also detects an account selection signal that acts on the account selection control element acquires the selected user account from the account selection control element and acquires the password corresponding to the selected user account from the query result.

The device may also include a new user account login unit configured to display if the query result is not empty a pop up control element for popping up a new user account login control element in the login interface. If the pop up control element receives a trigger signal the new user account login control element will be displayed for receiving a new user account and a corresponding password. In addition if the query result is empty the new user account login control element can also be displayed in the login interface. After the new user login control element is displayed a new user account login request signal that acts on the new user account login control element can be detected. Accordingly the user account and the corresponding password are acquired from the new user account login control element. The acquired user account and the acquired password are sent to the server for login authentication. Further if successful login information is received from the server the new user account login unit can send the terminal identifier the acquired user name and the acquired password to the server to store.

The device can reduce the user s input operations thereby extending the standby time of the device and saving energy. Moreover because multiple software applications or web sites may share the same server and the same set of user account and password the device can avoid using a process communication to detect user accounts of other software applications or websites which can reduce a workload of the device and further extend the standby time of the device .

The server performs based on the terminal identifier a query of a user account associated with the terminal identifier and a password corresponding to the user account and returns a query result to the mobile terminal .

The mobile terminal receives the query result. If the query result is not empty the mobile terminal selects from the query result a user account and a password corresponding to the selected user account and sends the selected user account and the corresponding password to the server .

The server performs user login authentication according to the selected user account and the corresponding password and sends a login authentication result to the mobile terminal for the selected user account to login.

In exemplary embodiments the mobile terminal is configured to perform the above described user login methods and .

In exemplary embodiments there is also provided a non transitory computer readable storage medium including instructions such as included in the memory executable by the processor for performing the above described user login methods. For example the storage medium can be a hard drive a CD ROM a floppy disk etc.

One of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the above described units can each be implemented by hardware or software a combination of hardware and software. One of ordinary skill in the art will also understand that multiple ones of the above described units may be combined as one unit and each of the above described units may be further divided into a plurality of sub units.

Other embodiments of the inventions will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the inventions disclosed here. This application is intended to cover any variations uses or adaptations of the inventions following the general principles thereof and including such departures from the present disclosure as come within known or customary practice in the art. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the inventions being indicated by the following claims.

It will be appreciated that the present inventions are not limited to the exact construction that has been described above and illustrated in the accompanying drawings and that various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope thereof. It is intended that the scope of the inventions only be limited by the appended claims.

