---

title: Sound source localization and isolation apparatuses, methods and systems
abstract: A processor-implemented method for spatial sound localization and isolation is described. The method includes segmenting, via a processor, each of a plurality of source signals detected by a plurality of sensors, into a plurality of time frames. For each time frame, the method further includes obtaining, via a processor, a plurality of direction of arrival (DOA) estimates from the plurality of sensors, discretizing an area of interest into a plurality of grid points, calculating, via the processor, DOA at each of grid points, comparing, via the processor, the DOA estimates with the computed DOAs. If the number of sources is more than 1, the method includes obtaining via the processor, a plurality of combinations of DOA estimates, from amongst the plurality of combinations, estimating, via the processor, one or more initial candidate locations corresponding to each of the combinations, selecting location of the sources from amongst the initial candidate locations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09549253&OS=09549253&RS=09549253
owner: Foundation for Research and Technology—Hellas (FORTH) Institute of Computer Science (ICS)
number: 09549253
owner_city: Heraklion
owner_country: GR
publication_date: 20141128
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 909 882 filed Nov. 27 2013 which is expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 294 095 Inventors Anastasios Alexandridis Anthony Griffin and Athanasios Mouchtaris titled Sound Source Characterization Apparatuses Methods and Systems filed on Jun. 2 2014 which in turn is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 038 726 Inventors Despoina Pavlidi Anthony Griffin and Athanasios Mouchtaris titled Sound Source Characterization Apparatuses Methods and Systems filed on Sep. 26 2013 which claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 706 073 filed on Sep. 26 2012 all of which are expressly incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

This application may contain material subject to copyright or other intellectual property protection. The respective owners of such intellectual property have no objection to the facsimile reproduction of the disclosure as it appears in documents published by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office but otherwise reserve all rights whatsoever.

The subject matter disclosed herein relates generally to apparatuses methods and systems for sound source characterization and more particularly to SOUND SOURCE LOCALIZATION AND ISOLATION APPARATUSES METHODS AND SYSTEMS SSL .

This summary is not intended to identify essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended for use in determining or limiting the scope of the claimed subject matter.

A spatial sound localization system is described. The system includes a memory a network and a processor. The processor is in communication with the memory and the network and configured to issue a plurality of processing instructions stored in the memory wherein the processor issues instructions to obtain a plurality of direction of arrival DOA estimates from the plurality of sensors discretizes an area of interest into a plurality of grid points calculates via the processor DOA at each of grid points comparing via the processor the DOA estimates with the computed DOAs. If the number of sources is more than 1 the system obtains via the processor a plurality of combinations of DOA estimates from amongst the plurality of combinations estimates one or more initial candidate locations corresponding to each of the combinations and selects location of the sources from amongst the initial candidate locations.

It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that any block diagrams herein represent conceptual views of illustrative systems. The order in which the methods are described are not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described method blocks can be combined in any order to implement the methods or an alternative method. Additionally individual blocks may be deleted from the methods without departing from the spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. Furthermore the methods can be implemented in any suitable hardware software firmware or combination thereof.

SOUND SOURCE LOCALIZATION AND ISOLATION APPARATUSES METHODS AND SYSTEMS SSL are described herein. Localization of a source from its acoustic emissions such as a voice cries movement noise footsteps sound of an instrument etc. may be useful to determine the position of an entity. Further spatial sound recording and reproduction may be useful to provide surround sound experience to a listener. Examples of applications for sound source localization include but are not limited to entertainment systems for reproducing concerts playing movies playing video games and teleconferencing.

To reproduce a soundscape spatial information need to be preserved. The soundscape is usually encoded into a plurality of channels and reproduction is performed using a plurality of loudspeakers or headphones. In order to do this accurately and in a manner that does not require a very dense distribution of microphones throughout the area to be monitored microphones may be treated as a plurality of arrays to jointly process the sound signals. The use of microphone arrays for spatial audio recording has attracted attention due to their ability to perform operations such as Direction of Arrival DOA estimation and beamforming.

The microphone or microphone arrays may be used in conjunction with various methods to determine the direction of arrival DOA of signals from the sound sources to perform many operations such as beam forming speech enhancement and distant sound acquisition. However in many scenarios both the DOA and the actual location of a sound source in space are desired. For example methods may be used to determine the location of speakers in a room during a teleconference. Additionally a richer set of inputs such as DOA and actual location information allows for an efficient capture of spatial sound and amplification localization and isolation of sound sources. Generally methods either focus on scenarios where only a single sound source or microphone is active or provide computationally intensive solutions that cannot be executed efficiently in real time where a plurality of sound sources are active simultaneously. Some methods rely on the assumption that the microphone arrays are part of wired sensor networks. Some other methods are based on wireless acoustic sensor networks WASNs where a number of microphones or microphone arrays are distributed over an extended area. WASNs offer flexibility in sensor placement and are also able to provide better spatial coverage and localization information.

Generally source localization in a WASN is challenging as the sensor network poses many constraints related to time synchronization power and bandwidth limitations and the like. For these reasons approaches that require the transmission of the full audio signals to a central processing node are often unsuitable as they are bandwidth consuming and the required transmission power can reduce the battery life of the sensors. Moreover such approaches require the signals to be synchronized. Certain approaches circumvent the problem of synchronization by using special nodes that use internal Global Positioning System GPS chips to resample the audio samples with a network common timestamp. However the full audio signals still need to be transmitted to a central processing node that may be coupled to a plurality of microphone arrays.

By allowing increased computational ability in the nodes the absolute minimum transmission bandwidth can be attained when each sensor node only transmits DOA estimates to the central processing node. Localization using bearing only i.e. DOA estimates can also tolerate unsynchronized outputs provided that the sources are static or that they move at a slow rate relative to the analysis frame.

The bearing only localization can be determined using closed form solutions such as the Stansfield estimator a weighted linear least squares estimator. While simple in their implementation these linear least squares methods suffer from increased estimation bias.

Furthermore the aforementioned methods typically only consider the problem of localizing a single source. However in many realistic scenarios a plurality of sources may co exist in an area and the location of all sources may be required. Similar to single source localization bearing only source localization of acoustic sources poses many challenges. First of all there is the so called data association problem where the central processing node receiving DOA estimates for a plurality of sources from the different sensors cannot distinguish to which source the DOA estimates belong. Erroneous DOA combinations across the sensors can result in ghost sources that do not correspond to real sources. Localization of a plurality of sources by angle and frequency measurements has been considered but such methods fail if the sources contain overlapping frequencies and thus cannot be applied to the case of acoustic sources. A method for localization of a plurality of sources using non linear least squares that tries to overcome the data association problem have also been examined. In this method however the problem of ghost sources is not eliminated leading to severe performance degradation. Additionally when the sources are close together some arrays may only detect one source. As a result the DOAs of some sources from some sensors may be missing making them computationally inefficient.

Embodiments of SSL offer computationally efficient solutions to at least the problems identified above while providing additional features and advantages. For example SSL addresses the problem of the missing DOA estimates as a function of the sources locations. Embodiments of SSL disclose methods and systems for localizing one or more sources using for example far field DOA measurements in an indoor or outdoor WASN. Moreover SSL discloses an iterative grid based DOA estimator for providing localization information. Other iterative solutions for source localization have been used in the past such as Steered Response Power SRP based approaches however when applied to a WASN these approaches require a significantly higher amount of information to be transmitted to the central processing node.

Some embodiments of SSL include methods and systems to localize single sources and a plurality of sources in an acoustic network. In one implementation the computational efficiency of SSL allows SSL to be extended to localize a plurality of sources. In one implementation the single source grid based method is applied to each possible combination of DOA measurements from the sensors. Then to decide on the actual source locations the data association is determined using exemplary methods which may be based on the estimated source locations and the corresponding DOA combinations. Embodiments of SSL can be implemented in real time to provide accurate results.

The exemplary simulations implemented by the SSL to model the DOA estimation error and consider the problem of missing DOAs as a function of source location makes the simulations more realistic than simulations considered thus far.

Additionally in one implementation of SSL only DOA estimates are transmitted to the central processing node keeping bandwidth requirements to the minimum. When localizing a single source the exemplary grid based DOA estimator maintains the accuracy of standard approaches such as Non Linear Least Square DOA estimator while performing much better in terms of computation time.

Further according to an embodiment the SSL includes methods and systems for capturing and reproducing spatial audio information based at least on sound localization information from a single or a plurality of simultaneously active sources and where the sources may be coupled to a single or a plurality of sensor arrays. According to an implementation the SSL may be configured to count the number of active sources at each time instant or at predefined time intervals estimate the directions of arrival of the active sound sources on a per time frame basis and perform source separation with a beamformer. For example a fixed superdirective beamformer may be implemented which results in more accurate modeling and reproduction of the recorded acoustic environment.

In one implementation the separated source signals can be filtered as per W disjoint orthogonality WDO conditions. According to one definition WDO assumes that the time frequency representation of multiple sources do not overlap. In one implementation the separated source signals are downmixed into one monophonic audio signal which along with side information can be transmitted to the reproduction decoder. In one implementation reproduction is possible using either headphones or an arbitrary loudspeaker configuration or any other means.

In one implementation source counting and corresponding localization estimation may be performed by processing a mixture of signals data received by a plurality of sensing devices such as microphones arranged in one or more arrays and by taking into account the known array geometry and or correlation between signals from one or more pairs or other combinations of sensing devices in the array. In one implementation the SSL may partition the incoming signals data from the sensing devices in overlapping time frames. The SSL may then apply joint sparsifying transforms to the incoming signals in order to locate single source analysis zones. In one implementation each single source analysis zone is a set of frequency adjacent time frequency points. The SSL may assume that for each source there exists at least one single source constant time analysis zones interchangeably referred to as single source analysis zone where that source is dominant over others. The cross correlation and or auto correlation of the moduli of time frequency transforms of signals from various pairs of microphones are analyzed to identify single source analysis zones based at least on a correlation coefficient measure.

In some embodiments a strongest frequency component of a cross power spectrum of time frequency signals from a pair of microphones may be used to estimate a DOA for each of the sources relative to a reference axis. This may be performed either simultaneously or in an orderly manner for each of the detected single source analysis zones. In other embodiments a selected number of frequency components may be used for DOA estimation. The estimated DOAs for each sound source may be clustered and the DOA density function may be obtained for each source over one or more portions of the signals. A smoothed histogram may be obtained by applying a filter having a window length hand a predetermined number of frames. Additionally or alternatively in one implementation the number of sources may also be estimated from the histogram of DOA estimates such as by using peak search or linear predictive coding. In some embodiments the number of sources may be estimated from the histogram of DOA estimates using a matching pursuit technique. Additionally refined and more accurate values of DOAs are generated corresponding to each of the estimated sources based at least on the histogram. While certain implementations may have been described to estimate the number of sources and their respective locations it will be understood that other implementations are possible.

In some embodiments the localization information relating to source locations and count may be specified by a user or obtained from a storage device. Some embodiments described herein allow for joint DOA estimation and source counting. The number of sources and directional information so obtained may be sent to the following processing stages. For example the localization information from the DOA estimator and source counter may be used to separate source signals using spatial filtering methods and systems such as at least one beamformer. In some embodiments for example in cases where the number of sound sources is large e.g. orchestra the beamformer may scan the sound field at received locations. This may occur either based on locations specified by a DOA estimation module or by a user. In some embodiments the beamformer may use both types of localization information i.e. estimated and user specified in parallel and then combine the results in the end. In yet another embodiment the beamformer may use a mix of localization information from the module and user by identifying dominant directional sources and less directional or spatially wide extended sound sources to yield beamformer output signals.

In some embodiments SSL may include a post filter to apply binary masks on the beamformer output signals to enhance the source signals. For example in one implementation source signals may be multiplied with corresponding orthogonal binary masks to yield estimated source signals.

Some embodiments include a downmixer or a reference signal generator to combine the estimated source signals into a single reference signal. The combination may be a logical summation or any other operation. Furthermore weights may be added to certain signals. Further side information may also be extracted. In one implementation the side information includes the direction of arrival for each frequency bin. In one implementation the side information and the time domain downmix signal are sent to the decoder for reproduction. Both of these types of information may be encoded. For example the side information may be encoded based on the orthogonality of binary masks.

Some embodiments of the methods and systems described herein method consider only the spatial aliasing free part of the spectrum to estimate the DOAs so spatial aliasing does not affect the DOA estimates. Spatial aliasing may affect the beamformer performance degrading source separation. However as experimental results indicate such degradation in source separation is unnoticeable to listeners. Moreover since a different DOA for each time frequency element is not estimated the method does not suffer from erroneous estimates that may occur due to the weakened W disjoint orthogonality WDO hypothesis when a plurality of sound sources are active. The listening test results show that this approach to modeling the acoustic environment is more effective certain array based approaches. Moreover based on the downmixing process the separated source signals and thus the entire sound field are encoded into one monophonic signal and side information. During downmixing the method assumes WDO conditions but at this stage the WDO assumption does not affect the spatial impression and quality of the reconstructed sound field. One of the reasons is that compared to other methods WDO conditions are not relied upon to extract the directional information of the sound field but only to downmix the resulting separated source signals. Another issue is that source separation through spatial filtering results in musical noise in the filtered signals a problem which is evident in almost all blind source separation methods. However in some embodiments the separated signals are rendered simultaneously from different directions which eliminates the musical distortion.

Some embodiments of the methods and systems can be extended to a plurality of microphone arrays by allowing the arrays to cooperate during spatial feature extraction. Thus the sound scene can be rendered using both direction and distance information. Further specific spots of the captured sound scene can be selectively reproduced.

Embodiments of the methods and systems described herein can offer lower computational complexity higher sound quality and higher accuracy as compared to existing solutions for spatial sound characterization can operate in both real time and offline modes some implementations operate with less than or about 50 of the available processing time of a standard computer and provide relaxed sparsity constraints on the source signals compared to conventional methods. Embodiments of SSL are configured to operate regardless of the kind of sensing array array topologies number of sources and separations SNR conditions and environments such as for example anechoic reverberant and or simulated real environments. Furthermore the encoding and decoding of directional sound as described herein allows for a more natural reproduction of sound recording thereby allowing recreation of the original scene as closely as possible.

SSL may find various applications in the field such as for teleconferencing where knowledge of spatial sound can be used to create an immersive and more natural way of communication between two parties or to enhance the capture of the desired speaker s voice thus replacing lapel microphones. Other applications include but are not limited to gaming entertainment systems media rooms with surround sound capabilities next generation hearing aids or any other applications which could benefit from providing a listener with a more realistic sensation of the environment by efficiently extracting transmitting and reproducing spatial characteristics of a sound field.

Certain embodiments of SSL may be configured for use in standalone devices e.g. PDAs smartphones laptops PCs and or the like . Other embodiments may be adapted for use in a first device e.g. USB speakerphone Bluetooth microphones Wi Fi microphones and or the like which may be connected to a second device e.g. computers PDAs smartphones and or the like via any type of connection e.g. Bluetooth USB Wi Fi serial parallel RF infrared optical and or the like to exchange various types of data e.g. raw signals processed data recorded data and or signals and or the like . In such embodiments all or part of the data processing may happen on the first device in other embodiments all or part of the data processing may happen on the second device. In some embodiments there maybe more than two devices connected and performing different functions and the connection between devices and processing may happen in stages at different times on different devices. Certain embodiments may be configured to work with various types of processors e.g. ARM Raspberry Pi and or the like .

While aspects of the described SSL can be implemented in any number of different systems circuitries environments and or configurations the embodiments are described in the context of the following exemplary system s and circuit s . The descriptions and details of well known components are omitted for simplicity of the description.

The description and figures merely illustrate exemplary embodiments of the SSL. It will thus be appreciated that those skilled in the art will be able to devise various arrangements that although not explicitly described or shown herein embody the principles of the present subject matter. Furthermore all examples recited herein are intended to be for illustrative purposes only to aid the reader in understanding the principles of the present subject matter and the concepts contributed by the inventor s to furthering the art and are to be construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions. Moreover all statements herein reciting principles aspects and embodiments of the present subject matter as well as specific examples thereof are intended to encompass equivalents thereof.

The term frequency component is used to indicate one among a set of frequencies or frequency bands of a signal such as a sample of a frequency domain representation of the signal e.g. as produced by a fast Fourier transform or a subband of the signal e.g. a Bark scale or mel scale subband .

Aspects of the SSL as described herein may be configured to process the captured signal as a series of short time segments or time frames. Typical segment lengths range from about five or ten milliseconds to about forty or fifty milliseconds and the segments may be overlapping e.g. with adjacent segments overlapping by 25 or 50 or non overlapping. In one particular example the signal is divided into a series of non overlapping time segments or frames each having a length of ten milliseconds. A segment as processed by such a method may also be a segment i.e. a subframe of a larger segment as processed by a different operation or vice versa.

Reference to an embodiment in this document does not limit the described elements to a single embodiment all described elements may be combined in any embodiment in any number of ways. Furthermore for the purposes of interpreting this specification the use of or herein means and or unless stated otherwise. The use of a or an herein means one or more unless stated otherwise. The use of comprise comprises comprising include includes and including are interchangeable and not intended to be limiting. Also unless otherwise stated the use of the terms such as first second third upper lower and the like do not denote any spatial sequential or hierarchical order or importance but are used to distinguish one element from another. It is to be appreciated that the use of the terms and or and at least one of for example in the cases of A and or B and at least one of A and B is intended to encompass the selection of the first listed option A only or the selection of the second listed option B only or the selection of both options A and B . As a further example in the cases of A B and or C and at least one of A B and C such phrasing is intended to encompass the selection of the first listed option A only or the selection of the second listed option B only or the selection of the third listed option C only or the selection of the first and the second listed options A and B only or the selection of the first and third listed options A and C only or the selection of the second and third listed options B and C only or the selection of all three options A and B and C . This may be extended as readily apparent by one of ordinary skill in this and related arts for as many items listed.

In one implementation sensing devices may be microphones capable of detecting mechanical waves such as sound from one or more sources. In one implementation microphones are arranged in a circular array. In other implementations microphones may be arranged in other configurations such as triangle square straight or curved line or any other configuration. For example in some embodiments microphones may be arranged in a uniform circular array to detect sound signals from at least one sound source. Some embodiments may be configured to work with various types of microphones e.g. dynamic condenser piezoelectric MEMS and the like and signals e.g. analog and digital . The microphones may or may not be equispaced and the location of each microphone relative to a reference point and relative to each other may be known. Some embodiments may or may not comprise one or more sound sources of which the position relative to the microphones may be known. Even though the following description mostly discusses audible sound waves it will be understood that the SSL may be configured to accommodate signals in the entire range of frequencies and may also accommodate other types of signals e.g. electromagnetic waves and the like .

In one implementation SSL may include an exemplary sound source localizer that can process the signals received from each of the microphone arrays to provide sound localization information such as DOA corresponding to each source location of the sound source location of the microphone and the like. In one implementation the sound source localizer may be selected based on one or a combination of various factors such as the number of sound sources level of computational complexity computational efficiency processing time application and the like. One such configuration is shown in where the sound source localizer is selected based on the number of sound sources and the number of sound sources is provided by the sound source counter . In other embodiments the sound source counter may be replaced by or integrated with a parameter selector not shown to allow a user to vary the factors e.g. to simulate and monitor SSL s behavior and adapt the SSL for different environments and sensor arrangements. The localization information from the sound source localizer can be used in a variety of applications such as sound source separation for example.

In one embodiment SSL includes an acoustic network e.g. a wireless acoustic sensor network WASN whose M nodes are each equipped with a microphone array interchangeably referred to as a sensor. Each node can generate a DOA estimate for any source that it can detect or any source whose signal to noise ratio SNR at the node is high enough to be detected. In one implementation each of the node s estimates consist of direction only and no range information thus a single node s DOA estimates may not be sufficient to obtain absolute positions for sources. In one implementation the x and y coordinates of the locations of the mnode may be given by q 1 and similarly the x and y coordinates of the location of the ssource can be given by p 2 

Given S active sound sources the 2S 1 position vector of all the sources can be written as 3 and the DOA vector of the mnode can be defined as 

In the ideal scenario where the microphone array at each node is able to detect all sources the marray outputs an S 1 vector of noisy DOA measurements circumflex over 6 where is the DOA noise at the msensor which is assumed to be zero mean Gaussian with covariance matrix diag . . . . The variance of the DOA noise at each node can depend on several factors such as the DOA estimation method used and the SNR of the source signals at the nodes. Moreover reverberation can also affect the DOA estimation method resulting in estimates with a greater amount of noise.

Even though the description may assume localization in the two dimensions it will be understood that the systems and methods disclosed herein can be extended to situations when the sound sources are located at different elevation angles from the microphone arrays as long as the arrays and the sources lie approximately in the same plane. As shown in in one implementation the sound source counter provides a count of the sources S . Accordingly the sound source localizer adapted for a single source or a plurality of sources may be used. For example if S 1 the sound source localizer includes an Intersection Point Method IPM estimator and or a Grid Based Method GBM estimator which are configured to localize single sources. In one implementation the IPM estimator may further include a centroid determination module and an outlier detector . In practical scenarios it is possible that some sensors may only detect one source for example when the sources are too close to one another. As a result some of the DOAs of some sources may be missing. Therefore in one implementation the sound source localizer is configured to localize a plurality of sources as well. Therefore in another example if S 1 the sound source localizer includes IPM estimator and or GBM estimator which are configured to localize a plurality of sources. The IPM estimator may include a region identification module and the GBM estimator may further include a brute force estimator a sequential estimator and or a histogram module all configured to resolve the data association problem. In other implementations the brute force estimator a sequential estimator and or a histogram module may be associated with the IPM estimator or other such estimators. The IPM estimators and in one implementation may be based on an intersection point IP method while the GBM estimators and may be based on a grid based GB method static or iterative both of which are the described in the foregoing paragraphs.

Generally DOA estimators such as Linear Least Square LLS estimator and Non Linear Least Square NLS estimator have known to be used for localization of the single source. However both of these approaches have performance limitations which are discussed in the subsequent paragraphs.

In its simplest form the linear least squares LLS estimator can be described in the following manner. Given the DOA measurement circumflex over from the mmicrophone array the source is assumed to be located on the line described by sin circumflex over cos circumflex over sin circumflex over cos circumflex over 8 

Using all the DOAs from the M sensors leads to the following system of linear equations with two unknowns 

As the DOA measurements are contaminated by noise an exact solution to 9 cannot be found so the linear least squares solution is used and the location estimate is found as 10 

While simple in their implementation the LLS estimators suffer from increased estimation bias. For this reason maximum likelihood ML and non linear least squares NLS estimators have been investigated. The NLS estimator for the single source case is the maximum likelihood estimator when the DOA noise standard deviation is the same at all sensors. This approach aims at finding the location estimate circumflex over p that minimizes the following cost function 

The minimization can be solved by using recursive gradient descent methods and the location estimate from the linear least squares estimator can be used as an initial point to initialize the search.

However as mentioned before both these approaches suffer from certain performance limitations. To that end some embodiments of SSL include DOA estimators such as IPM estimators and GBM estimators e.g. IPM estimator and collectively referred to as and GBM estimators and collectively referred to as as shown in .

In one implementation of a single source localization the IPM estimator can estimate location of a single source by excluding one or more outliers from a pool of intersection points and evaluating a centroid from the remaining points of intersection. In one example outliers may be defined as a pair of DOA estimates that are capable of erroneously estimating source location. In other words outliers are caused by lines passing through the DOA estimates hereinafter referred to as DOA lines which are almost parallel. For this the IPM estimator may include a centroid determination module to determine the centroid of the intersections of pairs of DOA lines which may be formed by lines passing through pairs of DOA estimates. By one definition centroid can be the mean of the set of intersection points and minimize the sum of squared Euclidean distances between itself and each point in the set. The IPM estimator further includes an outlier detector that identifies intersection points that are a result of DOA lines that are substantially parallel. In one implementation such determination may be based on a predefined parallelness threshold or slope value.

The IPM estimator is further explained with the example in that is an exemplary network cell having four sensor nodes where the DOA estimates have an error of up to 5 and the intersection points are labeled I I. The locations of sensors 1 4 in said example are 0 0 4 0 4 4 0 4 respectively and the source S is at 2.6 3.0 . The estimated location from the centroid of the intersection points is 2.40 2.77 which is a distance error of 0.43 or 11 of the inter sensor spacing V. shows that the effect of I an outlier is significant. Such outliers are caused by DOA lines that are almost parallel. A small change in the slope of either of these lines e.g. due to DOA estimation error can move their point of intersection significantly. Thus excluding the intersection points of pairs of DOA lines that are almost parallel improves the accuracy of the location estimation. In one implementation the IPM estimator detects and excludes outliers such as I. In said example by excluding this point from the centroid the estimated location becomes 2.64 2.99 and the error drops to 0.03 or 1 of V.

In one implementation the IPM estimator can also define the function A X Y the minimum angular distance between X and Y whose output will be in the range 0 . A simple and programmatically efficient implementation is to first ensure that X and Y are in the range 0 2 then by defining mod 2 12 mod 2 13 the minimum angular distance is given by min 14 monitoring health care for the elderly etc.

Given a parallelness threshold the source localization implemented by an estimator such as the IPM estimator can be explained with the help of . Referring to IPM estimator collects M DOA estimates from sensors at block . At block IPM estimator obtains pairs of DOA estimates where each pair is obtained from a distinct pair of sensors. In one implementation the IPM estimator can then determine intersection points based on the DOA estimates. For example the IPM estimator evaluates all possible pairs of DOA estimates i j obtained from sensors mand m. At block IPM estimator determines one or more intersection point outliers by comparing the DOA estimates with the parallelness threshold. For example the estimator determines whether 

If the answer to the determination is Yes i.e. if either of these conditions are met the estimator discards that pair of DOA estimates at block and moves to block . However if the answer to that determination is No the estimator stores the pair of DOA estimates that did not meet the threshold criterion and then goes on to block to further determine whether there are more pairs.

At block it is determined whether more pairs are available. If yes the pair is again subjected to the parallelness threshold test at block and the process continues until no more pairs are available. When no more pairs exist No branch of block points of intersection are computed based on the stored DOA estimates computed at block are used. This is shown at block .

At block the estimator estimates a source location circumflex over p based on the centroid of the calculated points of intersection which in one implementation do not include the intersection point outliers.

At block the estimator may feed the location information to a variety of sound based application including but not limited to security wild life monitoring health care for the elderly etc. Embodiments of SSL as defined above are computationally efficient and the resolution has no inherent limitations since the resolution is only affected by the accuracy of the DOA estimates.

As shown in additionally or alternatively some embodiments of SSL can include a GBM estimator such as GBM estimator to provide information related to single source localization. This is further explained with the help of . As described in the foregoing paragraphs unlike the NLS estimator the GBM estimator does not need a good initial point to avoid convergence to a local minimum and alleviates the computational burden of the minimization procedure implemented by the NLS in equation 11.

In one implementation the GBM estimator can discretize the search space by constructing a grid of N points over an area of interest. The estimator then determines a grid point whose DOAs most closely match the estimated DOAs. In cases where the measurements are in angles angular distances may be used as a measure of similarity than absolute distance. When compared to approaches that use absolute distances this approach may provide a greater level of computationally efficiency and accuracy particularly in the multiple source case.

The GBM estimator can further be explained with the example that shows a cell with four nodes and DOAs to the ngrid point and their associated column vector of . In one implementation can be a M N matrix wherein is the DOA from the msensor to ngrid point.

The ncolumn of is formed from the M DOAs to the ngrid point as illustrated in . In one implementation the GBM estimator determines the index of the grid point whose DOAs most closely match the estimated DOAs by solving 

Even if there are no DOA errors in the method above the method may exhibit localization error due to discretization of the area. The localization error is hereinafter referred to as the bias introduced from the use of the grid. As mentioned before consider grid points that are uniformly spaced where G is the inter point spacing in the x and y directions. Without loss of generality consider a grid point at 0 0 then due to symmetry the squared error is analyzed in the square defined by 0 0 and G 2 G 2 . Assuming that a source may be located anywhere in the square under consideration and that a uniform probability density function is given by

As shown in 19 for a network cell of given dimensions the number of grid points N determined by the resolution of the grid G determine the estimator s bias as per one implementation. Increasing N can decrease the position estimation error as it can make the error due to sampling the area significantly small but it can also increase the complexity of the method.

To maintain a computationally efficient method when a very dense grid i.e. large number of N is considered a variant to the static grid based method an iterative grid based method and system which starts with a coarse grid low value of N is disclosed herein. The iterative grid based method can be implemented by GBM estimator . In one implementation the estimator determines best grid point e.g. based on the index of grid point in equation 18. Once the best grid point is found a new grid centered on this point is generated with a smaller spacing between grid points but also a smaller scope. Then the best grid point in the new grid is found. This may be repeated until the desired accuracy is obtained while keeping the complexity under control as it does not require an exhaustive search over all grid points of the final resolution grid. An implementation of the iterative grid based method can be summarized through .

At block values of parameters such as initial grid resolution final grid resolution and a factor for increase in resolution r are received. For example GBM estimator receives values corresponding to the initial resolution of the grid as G the target resolution as G and r as the factor of increase in resolution i.e. decrease in the grid point spacing after each iteration.

At block G is set to G. At block GBM estimator constructs a grid over the area of interest with resolution set to G. At block a grid point n is determined for example by using 18 . At block GBM estimator determines whether G G. If Yes the method flow transitions to block where the coordinates of the grid point are output as source location. However if the answer to the determination block is No the block transitions to block where V is set to G and G is set to G r. At block the GBM estimator constructs a square grid of dimensions V and resolution G on the index point and goes back to block . In one implementation the latest square grid is smaller than the initial grid. The process runs until the condition e.g. resolution limit in block is met.

The iterative version as explained above finds a solution in a fixed number of iterations which depend at least on the initial and target grid resolution and the increasing resolution rate r. In one implementation the number K of iterations desired can be calculated as 

Additionally as the simulation results indicate the iterative version achieves the same performance to its brute force counterpart thus being able to find the optimal solution to static grid based method without requiring an exhaustive search over all grid points of the target resolution grid.

Embodiments of the exemplary grid based methods and systems can be extended to 3D localization as long as DOA estimation methods able to estimate both azimuth and elevation angles are employed. The localization method can easily be extended by employing a grid in three dimensions and considering the angular distance of both the azimuth and the elevation angles in 18 .

The Cram r Rao Lower Bound CRLB represents the minimum localization error covariance for any unbiased estimator and is defined as the inverse of the Fisher Information Matrix FIM J p 21 where circumflex over p is the estimate of p and . is the expectation operator. Under the Gaussian assumption for the measurement noise the FIM is derived as 

Referring to consider cases where more than one sources S 1 are identified by the source counter . The localization of a plurality of sound sources from DOA estimates is a considerably more challenging problem than its single source counterpart. The presence of a plurality of sources introduces further problems above those of the single source case. For example the LLS estimators NLS estimators and other estimators that use bearing only estimation may consider the problem of localizing a single source do not consider realistic scenarios for example a plurality of sources may co exist in an area and the location of all sources may need to be known. Furthermore while bearing only localization has been investigated for single source bearing only a plurality of source localization problem of sound sources poses many challenges. For example the so called data association problem occurs where the central processing node receiving DOA estimates for a plurality of sources from the different sensors cannot distinguish to which source they belong. Erroneous DOA combinations across the sensors will result in ghost sources that do not correspond to real sources. Some solutions are available but they have been found to be Non deterministic Polynomial time hard NP hard when the number of sensors is 3. Some solutions are designed only for noise less scenarios. Some solutions are based on statistical clustering of the intersection of bearing lines. However they again consider idealized scenarios of no missed detections and no spurious measurements. Localization of a plurality of sources by angle and frequency measurements have also been considered but such methods fail if the sources contain the same frequencies and thus cannot be applied to the case of acoustic sources. A method for localization of the plurality of sources using non linear least squares that tries to overcome the data association problem have also been discussed. However ghost sources are not eliminated leading to severe performance degradation.

To this end some embodiments of SSL include DOA estimators such as IPM estimator and GBM estimator as shown in to localize a plurality of sources coupled in a wired or wireless manner to a plurality of microphone arrays are described herein.

Consider which is a diagram of an example network cell having four sensor nodes numbered 1 4 with noisy DOA estimates from two sources not shown in this figure . In conventional systems the central processing node receiving the DOA estimates circumflex over circumflex over may not know to which source they belong and the localization method generally does not take this into account. An additional complication is that some sensor nodes may only detect one source as the sources DOAs may be too close together for that node to discriminate between them. For example see node number which detects only one source. The distance that determines the ability of a node to detect a source can be an angular distance referred to as minimum angular source separation MASS . Therefore if the angular distance between two sources is less than the MASS the sensor node only detects one source. In one implementation the DOA estimation method used by a sensor node the spectral content of the source signals and the array geometry determine the MASS at this node. Thus the exemplary localization systems and methods such as the IPM estimator and the GBM estimator deals with the ambiguity that each DOA estimate may originate from either source and that some or even all of the sensor nodes may underestimate the number of sources.

In the following discussion let Sdenote the number of sources detected by the msensor. Then let the maximum value of Sbe S which is the highest number of sources detected by at least one sensor. Let Xbe the set of sensors surrounding a cell detecting S sources in that cell and let Cbe the size of that set C X 

Generally NLS method or variations of position non linear least squares P NLS are used for localization of a plurality of sources. P NLS works in two stages in the first stage all unique combinations of DOA estimates are formed and a location estimate for each combination is calculated. Then in the second stage the final locations are estimated by minimizing the following cost function using the estimates from the previous stage as initial guesses 

In one implementation an IPM estimator such as IPM estimator is implemented for localizing a plurality of sources. The IPM estimator assumes that each DOA estimate obtained from a sensor in X can only belong to one source. In one implementation IPM estimator includes a region identification module to divide the possible locations for sources into Sunique combinations of DOA estimates thereby yielding up to Sregions. It will be understood that some of these regions may be null depending on the orientation of the DOA estimates.

In one implementation by counting the number of intersection points in each region and choosing the one that contains the most intersection points the IPM estimator can obtain a region that is most likely to contain one of the sources. Once a region is chosen and thus one of the combinations of DOA estimates the next most likely region is determined. This process may be executed until there is only one remaining possible combination of DOA estimates pointing to the final source.

At block the estimator determines S Xand then C and sets the counter s to zero. In one implementation the estimator also obtains and estimate the number of sensors in the current time frame.

At block the regions defined by all the intersections of all the possible combinations of pairs of half planes from different sensors are determined given that the vectors of the circular means form CS half planes. In another implementation a selected set of combination of pairs of half planes may be used to define regions.

At block the region with the most intersection points is determined. If there is a tie the region whose intersection points have the minimum variance is selected. The location of the ssource is then given by the centroid of the intersection points in this region.

At block the estimator estimates a source location circumflex over p based on the centroid of the calculated points of intersection.

Even though the methodology may have been described conceptually it can be implemented very efficiently by using line tests testing whether a point is above below or on a line and binary masks.

In one implementation an estimator such as GBM estimator can be implemented for localizing a plurality of sources. In one implementation the GBM estimator deals with the ambiguity that each DOA estimate may originate from either source and that some or even all of the sensor nodes may underestimate the number of sources. The GBM estimator accounts for the fact that the correct association of DOAs to the sources is unknown. In one implementation the GBM estimator executes a two step procedure. In the first step an initial candidate location is estimated for each possible combination of DOA measurements. In the second step the final S source locations are chosen from the candidate locations.

Let J denote the set of all possible unique combinations of DOA estimates and j enumerate the combinations. Moreover let be circumflex over be the M 1 vector of DOAs for the jcombination and let circumflex over denote the DOA of sensor m for the jcombination. The cardinality of J depends on the number of sources each sensor is able to detect and can be 

As the correct association of the DOAs of each sensor to the sources may not be known the methodology in is applied to each element of J and the set L of candidate source locations is formed with L J . Note that in some cases localization of the plurality of sources may increase the complexity by at least J 1 times that of the single source method which makes way for a computationally efficient method to perform the localization of each DOA combination. The iterative grid based method and systems of SSL as shown in minimize the non linear cost function of static GB method are significantly more computationally efficient and provide accuracy similar to the numerical search methods for finding the minimum of NLS estimator.

In one implementation the final S source locations are identified from the set of candidate locations L by determining data association. The data association methods and systems tackle the data association problem by localizing every possible DOA combination and then deciding on the locations of the true sources based on the estimated locations and their corresponding DOA combinations. The method is not restricted to a specific DOA estimation method can be integrated to any DOA estimation method such as the IP method or the GB method as long as it can provide the estimated number of active sound sources and their corresponding DOAs as well as an individual DOA estimate for each frequency. This may be done in a variety of ways some of which are explained in the foregoing sections.

In one implementation a brute force module can be implemented to determine data association. The brute force module can perform an exhaustive search over all possible S tuples of DOA combinations and selects the most likely one. An S tuple of DOA combinations is defined as the list of S DOA combinations elements of J each of them being an M 1 vector of DOA measurements from the M sensors. In forming an S tuple each sensor contributes to each of the S DOA combinations with a different estimate as the same DOA cannot belong to more than one source. In the case where a sensor has not detected all sources the same DOA can be repeated.

Therefore the brute force method for data association can be summarized as follows. In one implementation the brute force module forms all possible s tuples of DOA combinations by combining the elements of set J according to equation 24 . The is tuple is of the form circumflex over circumflex over . . . circumflex over 25 

Note that each DOA combination circumflex over is associated with a candidate source location p pp in the set L.

And then the s tuple that yields the minimum residual is selected and the corresponding candidate locations from that tuple are marked as the final source locations. In some cases this approach may be associated with high complexity as the number of tuples that need to be tested can grow as high as O S making this method impractical for example even when there are a moderate number of sources and sensors.

Therefore in another implementation data association can be resolved using a sequential module that is configured to approximate the performance of the brute force module and is much more computationally efficient. The sequential module relies on a sequential method to find the S DOA combinations that approximate the minimum residual of 26 without testing all the possible S tuples of DOA combinations.

In one implementation the sequential module for data association includes can create a set J J and then for each DOA combination j in the set J the residual is computed as 

The sequential module can then select a DOA combination j with the minimum residual and provide the corresponding location pas the location of one of the sources. In one implementation J is updated by subtracting all DOA combinations that contain DOAs that are part of the previously chosen combination j . In some implementations only DOAs of the sensors that have not detected all sources are allowed to take part in other combinations. The previous steps are repeated until J i.e. when all s sources have been found. Note that this approach does not need to test all possible S tuples of DOA combinations significantly reducing the computational burden to that of testing only O S DOA combinations.

In one implementation the IP and GB systems and methods tackle the data association problem by localizing every possible DOA combination and then deciding on the location of the true sources based on the estimated locations and their corresponding DOA combinations. However the performance of some methods such as the static and iterative grid based method may degrade when the arrays exhibit missed detections and the method cannot identify the source whose DOA is missing from an array in order to exclude this array when localizing that source. Other methods utilize additional information apart from the estimated DOAs to solve the data association. For example signal separation information may be used. Each array computes binary masks in the frequency domain that when applied to the microphone signals source separation is performed. The association of DOAs to the sources may be found by comparing the binary masks. However the method does not take into account missed detections and is designed to work only for the limiting case of two arrays.

Therefore in one implementation data association which is more robust to missed detections can be determined through a histogram module . The histogram module can also identify the sources whose DOAs are missing from some arrays offering improved localization accuracy. It is based on the estimation of how the frequencies of the captured signals are distributed to the estimated sound sources. This is achieved by comparing the DOA estimate obtained from each frequency of a given time frame to the final DOAs of the sources that are estimated at that frame. Data association can then be performed by comparing the frequency distributions of the sources at the different arrays. These frequency distributions provide a more reliable feature for data association being more robust to noise and missed detections. As the evaluation results show the histogram module and histogram based method to determine data association outperforms other known methods for data association while the amount of additional information that has to be transmitted in the network remains at low levels.

Referring to in one implementation a WASN whose M nodes are each equipped with a microphone array is considered. The signal received at the imicrophone of the marray is 

In one implementation each array estimates the number of active sources circumflex over P and their DOAs . . . using a DOA estimation method for a plurality of sources with source counting and transmits them to the central processing node along with additional information as explained subsequently. In one implementation a scenario with missed detections caused e.g. when the sources are close in terms of their angular separation with respect to an array is assumed. The estimated number of sources can vary across the arrays. The central processing node is responsible for finding the correct association of DOAs that correspond to the same source and then estimate the sources locations based on the associated DOAs.

In one implementation the data association method is based on estimating how the frequencies of the captured signals are distributed to the sources. This can be achieved by comparing the DOA estimate obtained from each frequency of a given time frame to the final DOAs of the sources that are estimated at that frame. As all microphone arrays record the same signal albeit with relative phase differences the distribution of frequencies for a given source across the arrays is similar. Then the correct association of DOAs to the sources can be found by comparing the estimated frequency distributions across all arrays. The method of data association using histograms of localization information is described using . In one implementation the process described in occurs within each node while the process described in B occurs at the central processing node within the network .

At block the sound or microphone signals in the marray are transformed into the Short Time Fourier Transform STFT domain resulting in the signals X where and denote the time frame and frequency index respectively. A source counting and DOA estimation method is employed for a plurality of sources which estimates the number of sources circumflex over P and their DOAs for every frame at block .

Also denoted as is the set of frequencies or frequency elements for frame up to a maximum frequency . may be omitted from the discussion hereinafter as the procedure is repeated in each time frame. At block the data association determination starts by performing DOA estimation in each frequency element even though the number of sources and their DOAs may be known from the previous step. The maximum frequency can be set to the spatial aliasing cutoff frequency determined by the array geometry above which ambiguous DOA estimates occur.

At block the frequencies in can be assigned to the sources according to the following rule. The frequency point is assigned to the source p if 

In one implementation the central processing node can perform the data association method. At block the central processing node obtains number of active sources circumflex over P their DOAs and a vector containing the source assignment in each frequency in . For example such information can be obtained from all the nodes coupled to the central processing node as the nodes. The nodes may have already processed and stored such information as shown in . At block for each time frame of incoming data from array m the histogram module creates a histogram for each estimated source that counts how many times each frequency point has been assigned to that source using the data of the current frame and B previous frames. At block pairs of arrays are identified. For example each pair may include at least one array that detected all sources. To illustrate how the pairs are selected consider the example in where two sources are active but array 3 detected only one. The pairing mechanism in this example creates the microphone array pairs 1 2 2 3 and 4 1 . In another example pairs may be selected based on a distance measure or DOA values.

At block the correct association can be estimated by for example sequentially comparing the histograms of the sources between pairs of arrays. In the case of missed detections the estimated number of sources and thus the number of histograms may differ across arrays. Such comparison may be based on a correlation coefficient which can be computed in various ways.

In one implementation let hdenote the histogram of the marray that corresponds to the source at direction . In the first step pairs of arrays are formed. Each array forms a pair with the array that is closest to it. Comparing the frequency distributions between arrays that are close together may be helpful as these arrays are expected to provide more similar features i.e. histograms to associate. Using the histograms from the two arrays in a pair the P P matrix is calculated as 

At block the associated DOAs are removed from further processing. In one implementation the associated DOA indices k and l are then removed from their corresponding sets Sand Sin order to ensure that each DOA is associated only once. The DOA association of the next source is then performed through the use of 32 until either Sor Sbecomes empty as shown in block .

When an array exhibits missed detections thus underestimating the number of sources it can have less than P histograms to compare. The cardinality of Sand Scan then differ and the corresponding elements of R are assigned the lowest possible value i.e. 1 . In this way the histogram module and the data association method therein are capable of handling missed detections and identifying that the given array has not estimated a DOA for a given source. In one implementation the procedure is repeated in all pairs of arrays. Finally by comparing the association of the common DOAs in all pairs the final association over all arrays can be derived.

In another implementation data association and source counting can be implemented using hierarchical clustering methods with unknown number of clusters. In one implementation the central processing node may receive the estimated histograms one histogram per estimated source or histogram related data from each node. Based on the histograms the correct association of sources can be estimated. Moreover as the sensors may underestimate or overestimate the number of sources source counting based on the individual estimation of the number of sources in the sensors may also be performed for more accurate results.

In one implementation the distance between two histograms may be defined as 1 r 2 where r is the correlation coefficient between the two histograms ranging from 1 1 as defined above. The distance between two clusters can be defined as the distance of the histograms of the two clusters with the maximum distance it will be understood other distance measures such as Hellinger distance Earth movers Distance EMD and Kullback Liebler Divergence can be used.

In one implementation the termination condition in Step 4 can determine the resulting number of clusters and thus the estimated number of sources. After each iteration the pair of clusters with the minimum distance can be chosen. This pair contains the clusters that are the most similar in the set. If their distance is higher than a predefined threshold it is assumed that no other merging of clusters is possible and the clustering is terminated resulting in the final clusters and their number.

This method is particularly useful in situations where no sensor has detected the true number of sources as the presented source counting approach may still identify the correct number of active sources. Thus in contrast to certain methods it can provide superior performance in situations where some sensors may overestimate the number of sources or all the sensors have underestimated the number of sources.

In the above procedure the histograms may be formed according to the method described previously however modifications in the histogram formation can also be applied. For example a modification that may increase the performance of the method is the following. As described with reference to each frequency is assigned to a specific source according to the conditions in Equations 29 and 30 . Thus each source assignment may contribute to the histogram by increasing the specific frequency count by one. An alternative approach is to also account for the accuracy of the DOA estimation in each frequency by incrementing the frequency count by the error between the DOA of the source and the DOA estimate in that frequency.

Alternatively a plurality of source localization can be applied by applying the single source grid based method or in general any single source location estimator per frequency bin based on the DOA estimates from the sensors for that specific frequency bin. Then a 2D histogram can be formed from the location estimates of the current and B previous frames where the peaks of the histogram represent the sources locations. An extension of the matching pursuit method to 2D can be used to identify the sources locations as well as their number. An extension of the matching pursuit to 2D or the watershed method or other clustering method can be used to identify the sources locations as well as their number.

Due to their real time nature the IP method the GB method or in general any DOA estimation method disclosed herein can be integrated with a tracking system according to an embodiment. In one implementation a tracking module not shown can be implemented based on particle filtering. In one implementation the tracking system can use the location estimates of the grid based estimator described with reference to to assign weights to the particles through the following likelihood function 33 Where circumflex over p is the ssource location estimate from the GB estimator at time t xis the location of particle i associated with the tracked source j at time t and denotes the two dimensional Gaussian distribution with mean xand covariance matrix evaluated at circumflex over p .

Assuming that the measurements are independent in the x and y coordinates the covariance matrix can be written as diag where the variances and are used to quantify the location error that the localization system is expected to produce in the x and y coordinates.

Tracking is now discussed with the help of an example. In the 4 m 4 m square cell considered in the simulations three sources were set to move in straight lines at different velocities. In this example the MASS was set as 15 . To implement 31 and both are set as 0.15. The RMSE over time for 250 runs is shown later in . It is evident that the tracking system consistently improves the localization performance. Also note that the region between 0.5 s and 1 s where the sources are located such that due to the MASS the localization is able to detect only two out of three sources. In that region the tracking is able to keep the track of the lost source and significantly improve the performance.

In order to investigate the performance of SSL simulations and real measurements were run on a square 4 node cell of a WASN similar to that of . Although this may be a study of a cell in a larger sensor network it is a reasonable assumption that the performance in each cell can dominate the performance of the whole network as the other sensors not belonging to this cell can receive the source signals with low SNR or not be able to detect the sources DOAs at all. Sensors that detect the sources DOAs but do not belong to the cell can be excluded by a higher layer sensor selection methodology.

In one implementation source localization using DOAs contaminated by noise of different levels is examined. Assume a 4 node cell of a WASN where the sources are located inside the cell. Non directional isotropic environmental noise and sensor noise may contaminate the sources signals received at the microphones of each sensor. This noise can be modeled as white Gaussian noise of equal power at all microphones uncorrelated with the source signal and the noise at the other microphones resulting in a certain level of SNR for each source signal at the sensors. As circular arrays of the same number of omnidirectional microphones are being considered the accuracy of the DOA estimates of a source at each sensor can be assumed to be determined by the SNR of that source s signal at that sensor.

By defining the SNR at each sensor when the source is at the center of the cell reference SNR SSL can estimate SNR at the sensors when the source is located at any location within the cell based on the attenuation of the source signal at that location compared to the center of the cell. Assume that the signal of a source radiates as a spherical wave and the attenuation experienced by the source signal traveling from rmeters from the source to rmeters from the source is given by 

The attenuation can either be positive or negative resulting in SNR at the sensors which is lower or higher than the reference SNR. Thus given a reference SNR at the center of the cell the SNR of a source signal at the sensors when the source is located at a given location can be calculated through geometry and the use of 34 . The source s SNR at each sensor can then define the standard deviation of the DOA error of 6 . Thus to proceed with the simulations SSL models the DOA error as a function of SNR. In one implementation the exemplary framework results in a different SNR and therefore a different DOA estimation error standard deviation at each sensor. Moreover in order to simulate a plurality of simultaneous sources within the MASS the effect of the MASS on the DOA estimation is studied.

The DOA estimation error at each sensor was assumed to be normally distributed with a zero mean and a variance that was assumed to be dependent only upon the SNR at each sensor which was in turn determined by the length of the path from the source to the sensor. Following one of the DOA estimation method simulations were performed to characterize the DOA estimation error using a sensor consisting of a 4 element circular microphone array with a radius of 2 cm. An anechoic environment was assumed and a speech source male speaker contaminated by white Gaussian noise at various SNR cases ranging from 5 dB to 20 dB was used in the simulations. The noise at each microphone is uncorrelated with the speech source and with the noise at all the other microphones. For each signal to noise ratio the simulation was repeated with the source rotated in 1 increments around the array to avoid any orientation biasing effects. shows the standard deviations obtained when the DOA estimation error at each SNR was fitted with a Gaussian distribution. The fitted curve in is given by std SNR 1.979 1.884 35 

As mentioned earlier in order to simulate a plurality of simultaneous sources the effect on DOA estimation when two sources were within the MASS of a sensor needed to be studied. A simulation study was performed where two speech sources one male one female were set at various separations of up to 20 below typical MASS and the energy of the second source was incrementally decreased so the signal to interferer ratio SIR seen by the first source varied from 0 dB to 20 dB. These simulations were then repeated with the sources being rotated around the array in 1 increments while preserving their angular separation to avoid any orientation biasing effects. In all simulations only one source was detected and shows the results of these simulations where the DOA offset has been normalized by the separation between the sources. The fitted curve of the normalized DOA estimate DOA is given by DOA SIR 0.5 36 

It is clear that the detected source s DOA is estimated exactly in the middle of the true DOAs when the sources have equal energy and moves gradually towards the dominant source as the weaker source decreases in energy. The fitted curve of was used in all simulations involving more than one source.

In all simulations the sources were located anywhere within the cell with independent uniform probability and the error measurement used was the root mean square error RMSE between the estimated positions and the true source positions. For each run i.e. a different positioning of the sources the sources true DOAs to the sensors were calculated using 5 and zero mean Gaussian DOA noise was added. The standard deviation of the DOA noise was taken from according to the sources SNRs at the sensors which in turn was estimated based on the reference SNR at the middle of the cell. For a plurality of sources when the sources were within the MASS one DOA was estimated through the use of 36 .

In the first simulation the single source case is considered and compared with the performance of the method implemented by GBM estimator when an exhaustive search over all grid points is performed against the iterative version of the method. For the iterative version an initial grid and a final grid with grid point spacings of 12.5 and 0.25 of the sensor spacing respectively are used. In each iteration the grid point spacing is reduced to one half of the previous one r 2 . For the exhaustive search version the same grid i.e. 0.25 of the sensor spacing is used and an exhaustive search is performed over all grid points to find the source location according to 18 .

The performance of localization methods for a plurality of sources implemented by the P NLS estimator and exemplary IPM and GBM estimators for two and three sources were also evaluated through simulations. For all the simulations with a plurality of sources presented hereafter the RMSE is calculated over 5000 runs.

The performance of the methods for two and three sources for the case of 0 MASS is displayed in respectively. Both the P NLS and GB methods used the brute force approach for the final source location selection. These results are for the idealized case of 0 MASS nonetheless it can be seen how close the performance of the GB method gets to the lower bound. However the performance of the IP method degrades with three sources.

Any realistic sensors and DOA estimation method may have a non zero MASS and the performance of all localization methods is expected to degrade significantly as the MASS increases. This is due to the fact that the accuracy of the methods degrades as Cdecreases and an increasing MASS directly decreases C especially as the number of sources increases. Alternatively as the MASS increases the accuracy of the DOA estimates from each sensor is much more likely to degrade significantly due to the merging effect illustrated in . In the extreme case Cwill be zero i.e. no sensors will detect the true number of sources and the localization method can underestimate the number of source locations. A more realistic case of 20 MASS is presented in and the degrading effect of the increased MASS is clear particularly for the three source case. Note again that the exemplary GB method consistently performs the best.

All the previous results have considered the DOA estimation error at the sensors to be modeled as in . In the position error for two sources with increased DOA estimation error when the reference SNR is 20 dB are considered. This is modeled by taking the result of and adding an additional Gaussian noise term with a zero mean and standard deviation of 1 10 at each sensor node. Again in the 0 MASS case the methods show a reasonable agreement with the lower bound and as the MASS moves to 20 the performance of all the methods suffers. Once again the exemplary GB method performs the best with the added DOA estimation error.

With the sequential approach in a solution was presented to the high complexity brute force approach while acknowledging that in some cases its performance may be worse than the brute force approach. illustrate the difference in performance for the two approaches with the exemplary GB method for two and three sources respectively. It is clear that little performance is lost using the sequential approach particularly at the higher and more realistic values of MASS. The loss in performance is higher at low values of MASS and for the three source case. Although it is not shown here due to space considerations because the P NLS method can use either the brute force or the sequential approach it too suffers a very similar performance loss to that of the GB method. also illustrate the effect of MASS on the RMSE highlighting that the DOA estimation used has a low MASS.

In one implementation all the localization methodologies of SSL were implemented in MATLAB on a Windows laptop with a Core i5 CPU running at 2.53 GHz with 4 GB RAM and their mean execution times are presented in Table 1.

Note that while the absolute execution times may be highly dependent on the machine only the relative times between the methods may be of interest. In the single source case the LLS method is clearly the fastest while the IP method is the fastest in the a plurality of source cases. The P NLS methods are clearly the slowest methods due to non linear optimization they require. Table 1 also shows the dramatic reduction in complexity when using the sequential rather than the brute force approach particularly in the three source case. These results together with the previous section suggest that the GB method with the sequential approach may be the best choice given its accuracy and moderate complexity. To further verify this suitability the GB method with the sequential approach was implemented in C and measured that it only consumed 25 of the available processing time making it an excellent candidate for a real time system.

Real recordings of acoustic sources in a 4 node square cell with sides 4 m long. The sensors on the nodes were circular 4 element microphone arrays with a radius of 2 cm and the DOA estimation was performed a real time system. The sources were recorded speech sampled at 44.1 kHz played back simultaneously through loudspeakers at different locations and their SNR at the center of the cell was measured to be about 10 dB. DOA estimation and source localization was performed on frames of 2048 samples with 50 overlap. Although a 4 4 m square is not a particularly large area since the reference SNR is measured at the center of the cell these results can be scalable to larger cells.

The performance of the P NLS and the disclosed grid based and intersection point methods was also compared on the real recorded data. Again for DOA estimation a real time system was used. shows the empirical Cumulative Distribution Functions CDFs of the error between the estimated and true source positions for the three localization methods. The error was calculated using all frames for all the source positionings of . It is evident that the P NLS and GB methods perform the best. However note that while the P NLS and GB methods have similar performance the disclosed exemplary GB method is much more computationally efficient.

It should be noted that these recordings took place outdoors and as such did not have many reflections but there was a significant level of distant noise sources such as cars and dogs barking. Furthermore the orientations of the sensors were not finely calibrated and the DOA estimates likely have unintended offsets of a few degrees. Thus the conditions were far from ideal making the results of the disclosed localization method even more encouraging.

The efficiency of the localization methods in reverberant environments was also tested. Any Image Source method may be used to simulate a reverberant room of dimensions of 6 6 3 m with reverberation time T 400 ms. A 4 node cell of sides 4 m long was placed in the middle of the room. Thus the nodes centers are located in 1 1 5 1 5 5 and 1 5 m. Again the nodes consist of circular 4 element microphone arrays with a radius of 2 cm. Consider the same source positionings and the same speech signals that were used for the real recordings in . For DOA estimation the system of 20 21 on frames of 2048 samples with 50 overlap was used. shows the CDFs of the error between the estimated and true source positions using all frames and all source positionings. Once again the grid based method performs the best. A performance degradation for all methods is evident compared to the results in . This is because reverberation affects the DOA estimation algorithm providing more erroneous DOA estimates.

Table 2 shows the RMSE over all frames for each position layout of . The results of the table agree with as the performance degradation due to reverberation is evident and the GB method generally performs the best. It is of note that in layouts f and l the outdoor recordings have greater RMSE than the reverberant ones. These layouts correspond to the cases where the DOA estimation algorithm in all arrays always detects one source. The DOA estimation of this practically single source case is the one least affected by reverberation. This fact combined with the fact that outdoor recordings were performed in a real rather than a simulated environment can explain this small difference in the RMSE between the two scenarios.

To evaluate the efficiency of the method and system disclosed in in finding the correct association of sources simulations on a cell of a WASN with dimensions of V 4 m with four nodes arranged according to the setup depicted in were run. The nodes locations are respectively 2 0 4 2 2 4 and 0 2 . Each node consists of a uniform circular microphone array with N 8 microphones and a radius r 0.05 m. In each simulation the sound sources were speech recordings of 2 seconds sampled at 44.1 kHz and had equal power when located at the center of the cell. The SNR was measured as the ratio of the power of each source signal when located at the center of the cell to the power of the noise signal. To simulate different SNR values the system added white Gaussian noise at each microphone uncorrelated with the source signals and the noise at the other microphones. Note that this framework results in different SNR at each array depending on how close the source is to the arrays.

Scenarios of two and three simultaneously active sources were considered. Each simulation was repeated 30 times and the sources were located within the cell with independent uniform probability. For processing frames of 2048 samples with 50 overlap were used. The FFT size was set to 2048. The spatial aliasing cutoff frequency for the given array geometry is approximately at 4 kHz and defines the frequencies that belong to set . The same frequency range was also used for the method that was used for comparison purposes. Finally for the method 10 and B 5 previous frames for the construction of the frequency distributions of sources.

The method s ability to handle missed detections is further discussed. Moreover the method s association algorithm was extended to more than two arrays. For the exemplary method the DOA estimation in each frequency point was performed. In this first simulation it was assumed that no errors in the estimation of the directions of the sources. Thus the DOA vectors m 1 . . . M at each array are assumed known. To evaluate the efficiency the method was compared with a source localization method for multiple sources using low complexity non parametric source separation and clustering hereinafter referred to as non parametric method.

To simulate missed detections Cis defined as the number of microphone arrays that detected s sources. The number of Cis fixed and some DOA estimates are removed from some arrays until the desired value of Cis reached. The sources whose DOAs are removed as well as the arrays that exhibit the missed detection are selected at random in every frame. shows the association accuracy of the exemplary method of and an alternate method for two sources and different SNR cases for all possible values of C i.e. the number of arrays that detected two sources. In each frame the association is correct if all active sources in that frame are assigned with the correct DOAs from the arrays. Note that in the case of missing DOAs the association algorithm must also identify the sources whose DOAs are missing.

From it is clear that the exemplary method outperforms non parametric method for all SNR cases being also robust to missed detections. The accuracy of the non parametric method when missed detections are present C

In the next simulation the association accuracy of the exemplary method in a more practical setting where the number of active sources and their corresponding DOAs are also estimated. The association accuracy for two and three simultaneously active sources and different SNR values is shown in . It can be observed that the exemplary method results in accurate associations especially when the SNR is 10 dB or higher. Note that in these results the values of Cand Cvaries as the number of sources is now estimated. The DOA estimation method in a given array can underestimate the number of source when the angular separation of the sources is small or when a source is located at a larger distance from the array than the other sources.

It was observed that for the two source case in approximately only 22 of the frames all four arrays detected two sources C 4 in 35 of the frames C 3 in 38 of the frames C 2 and in 5 of the frame only one array detected two sources C 1 . The values were approximately constant for all SNR cases. The problem of missed detections is more evident in the case of three sources where there was no case that all three sources were detected by more than two arrays and with the value of Cbeing either two or three for approximately 75 of the frames in all SNR cases. Taking these numbers into consideration shows that the exemplary method is efficient against missed detections for both the two and three source cases.

Since the final goal of any data association algorithm is to improve the location estimation accuracy the method is evaluated in terms of localization accuracy and compare it with other methods. The localization performance was measured in terms of the root mean square error RMSE over all sources all 30 different source configurations for two and three active sources and for all frames that at least one array was able to detect the true number of sources. The localization error using the estimated DOAs and assuming that the correct association of DOAs to the sources is known is also included to represent the best case scenario. It can be observed that the disclosed methods outperform the others providing location estimates very close to the best case especially at higher SNR values. The non parametric method is unable to handle realistic scenarios with missed detections.

Finally the transmission requirements of the method are quantified. Apart from the DOA estimates the marray has to transmit the DOA index that each frequency point was assigned to. For each frame given circumflex over P estimated sources each frequency belongs to one of the sources or it is considered erroneous. Thus for each frequency log circumflex over P 1 bits are required to encode the DOA indices with . denoting the ceiling operator. The alternative methods require the transmission of a binary mask for each sound source. However a similar encoding scheme can be used where each frequency requires log circumflex over P bits. Thus the exemplary method results in improved data association and localization accuracy while its transmission requirements remain at low levels.

Spatial audio refers to the reproduction of a soundscape by preserving the spatial information. The soundscape is usually encoded into multiple channels and reproduction is performed using multiple loudspeakers or headphones. The use of microphone arrays for spatial audio recording has attracted attention due to their ability to perform operations such as DOA estimation and beamforming.

Different approaches for recording spatial audio with microphone arrays have been investigated such as high order differential arrays and DOA estimation combined with Head Related Transfer Functions HRTFs for binaural spatial audio. Microphone arrays have also been exemplary as a recording option for Directional Audio Coding DirAC .

The conventional techniques either restrict the loudspeaker configuration according to the microphone configuration or ignore the spatial aliasing that occurs in microphone arrays. The latter makes the accurate estimation of spatial features direction and or diffuseness very challenging across the whole spectrum of frequencies and degrades the quality of reproduction.

To this end in one implementation a real time method for spatial audio recording using one or more microphone arrays are disclosed that mitigates some of these problems by counting the number of active sources and estimating their DOAs for each time frame and not individually for each frequency. Based on the estimated DOAs the source signals from one or more sources are separated through spatial filtering with a superdirective beamformer. Finally all source signals and thus the entire soundscape are down mixed into one monophonic signal and side information. In one implementation the microphone arrays are configured to cooperate in order to design a single post filter that separates all source signals. In this scheme each microphone array remains responsible for the sources that are closest to it but it does not individually estimate its own post filter.

In one implementation embodiments of SSL include ImmACS Immersive Audio Communication System . In one implementation ImmACS can capture the soundscape at the recording side using a microphone array and reproduce it using a plurality of loudspeakers or headphones in real time. The capturing and reproducing sides of ImmACS can be located far apart so the encoded sound scape can be transferred through a communication network. ImmACS also gives the listeners the ability to select the directions they want to hear and attenuate the sources that come from other directions. For these features source isolation provides accurate spatial impression or reproduce specific sources while attenuating others in the soundscape.

Exemplary embodiments of ImmACS are now described in the foregoing paragraphs followed by variations to include the use of a plurality of microphone arrays for recording spatial audio. Motivated by situations where a single microphone array cannot provide sufficient spatial coverage such as when the angular separation of sources is very small or the sources have the same DOA with respect to the array ImmACS can be extended to a plurality of arrays by allowing a plurality of arrays to cooperate in order to provide better and more robust source isolation.

To describe the architecture and operation of SSL and ImmACS therein for a plurality of microphone arrays SSL for a single microphone array is first described. In one implementation SSL includes a plurality of microphone arrays 1 2 . . . M where each of the array may include a plurality of sound sensing devices labeled m m . . . m capable of detecting mechanical waves such as sound signals from one or more sound sources. In some embodiments the devices may be microphones. Some embodiments may be configured to work with various types of microphones e.g. dynamic condenser piezoelectric MEMS and or the like and signals e.g. analog and digital . The microphones may or may not be equispaced and the location of each microphone relative to a reference point and relative to each other may be known. Some embodiments may or may not comprise one or more sound sources of which the position relative to the microphones may be known. Furthermore the microphones may be arranged in the form of an array. The microphone array can be for example a linear array of microphones a circular array of microphones or an arbitrarily distributed coplanar array of microphones. The description hereinafter may relate to circular microphone arrays however similar methodologies can be implemented on other kind of microphone arrays.

Although mostly discussing audible sound waves SSL may be configured to accommodate signals in the entire range of frequencies and may also accommodate signals in the entire range of frequencies and may also accommodate other types of signals e.g. electromagnetic waves and or the like .

The exemplary systems receive the signals captured by the plurality of sensing devices and process received signals data based at least on one or more parameters such as array geometry type of environments and the like to either estimate the number of the active sources or their corresponding DOAs or both.

Each of the sound signals received by the microphones in the microphone array can include the sound signal from a sound source s located in proximity to the microphone or preferred spatial direction and frequency band among other unsuppressed sound signals from the disparate sound sources and directions and ambient noise signals. In one implementation the mixture of signals received at each of the microphones m m . . . mcan be represented by x t x t . . . x t respectively. According to an implementation each x t can be represented by equation 28 . The signals are received by a time frequency TF transform module which provides a time frequency representation of the observations received signals that can be represented as X k X k . . . X k .

In an embodiment the TF transform module divides the received signals into time frames and then implements a short term Fourier transform STFT as a sparsifying transform to partition the overall time frequency spectrum into both time and frequency domains as a plurality of frequency bands slices extending over a plurality of individual time slots slices on which the Fourier transform is computed. Other sparsifying transforms may be employed in a similar manner. The frequency signals are transmitted to a DOA estimator and source counter .

In some embodiments the DOA estimator and source counter provides localization information including but not limited to an estimated number of sources and estimated directions of arrival with a high degree of accuracy in reverberant environments. In one embodiment the DOA estimator and source counter receives localization information directly or indirectly from a user and temporarily or permanently stores such information as user specified locations. In another embodiment the DOA estimator and source counter may use previously stored localization information. In one embodiment the DOA estimator and source counter provides localization information by detecting single source analysis zones or single source constant time analysis zones. In such an implementation for each source there is assumed to be at least one single source analysis zone SSAZ where a single source is isolated i.e. a zone where a single source is dominant over others. The sources can overlap in TF domain except in one or more of such SSAZs. Further in one implementation if several sources are active in the same SSAZ they vary such that the moduli of at least two observations are linearly dependent. This allows processing of correlated sources contrary to classical statistic based DOA methods. In one implementation the DOA estimator and source counter detects one or more single source analysis zones by determining cross correlations and auto correlations of the moduli of the time frequency transforms of signals from pairs of sensing devices. In one implementation correlation between all possible pairs of sensing devices are considered and the DOA estimator and source counter can identify all zones for which a predetermined correlation coefficient condition is satisfied. In another implementation average correlation between adjacent pairs of sensing devices is considered. Additionally or alternatively the DOA estimator and source counter can identify all zones for which the autocorrelation coefficient is based on a system or user defined threshold. In yet another implementation a desired combination of microphones may be used for calculation of correlation coefficient to detect SSAZs. In one example such a selection can be made via a graphical user interface. In another example the selection can be adaptively changed as per environment or system requirements. In one implementation the detected SSAZs may be used by the DOA estimator and source counter to derive the DOA estimates for each source in each of the detected SSAZs based at least on a cross spectrum over all or selected few microphone pairs. Since the estimation of the DOA occurs in an SSAZ the phasor of the cross power spectrum of a microphone pair mm or mm as the case may be is evaluated over a frequency range of the specific zone. In one implementation the DOA estimator and source counter then computes phase rotation factors and a circular integrated cross spectrum CICS . Based on the CICS the estimated DOA associated with a frequency component in the single source analysis zone with frequency range can be given by 

It will be understood that several single source analysis zones may lead to the same DOA estimate as the same isolated source may exists in all such zones. In one implementation the DOA estimator and source counter derives DOA for each source by clustering the estimated DOAs which can be done by creating a histogram for a particular time segment and then finding peaks in the histogram. In other implementations DOAs and other such data distribution can be represented in other ways such as bar charts etc.

Alternatively or additionally once all the local DOAs have been estimated in each of the identified single source analysis zones the DOA estimator and source counter creates a histogram from the set of estimations for example in a block of B consecutive time frames. Any erroneous estimates of low cardinality due to noise and or reverberations only add a noise floor to the histogram. Further in some embodiments a smoothed histogram is obtained from the histogram.

In other implementations the DOA estimator and source counter applies one or more methods that robustly estimate the number of active sources. To this end the DOA estimator and source counter may include at least one of a peak search module not shown a linear predictive coding LPC module not shown and or a matching pursuit module not shown to count the number of active sources under the constraint that the maximum number of active sources may not exceed a user or system defined upper threshold P.

In one implementation the peak search module the LPC module or a matching pursuit module can be implemented to estimate the number of sources. It will be understood for one source one may get several DOAs from difference single source analysis zones because of noisy estimation procedure while using cross power spectrum over zones. But by using histogram as per some embodiments a more accurate value of DOA among all the estimates can be obtained. Furthermore the estimation of DOAs does not happen per individual time frequency element or for each frequency bin but for groups of frequencies which are found to be good candidates for the DOA estimation i.e. those groups that will give robust estimation are selected. Once DOAs are obtained each frequency bin may be assigned to one of these DOAs.

In said implementations the DOA estimator and source counter is capable of detecting all the sources resulting in sufficiently accurate and smooth source trajectories. In the case of moving sources some erroneous estimates may occur before and after the two sources meet and cross each other. However since there are no active sources present in these directions the subsequent operations such as beamforming and post filtering are expected to cancel the reproduction of the signals from erroneous directions. Thus as long as all the active sources are identified individual erroneous estimates caused by an overestimation of the number of active sound sources cannot degrade the spatial audio reproduction.

In one embodiment the output of the DOA estimator and source counter such as the estimated number of sources circumflex over P and a vector with the estimated DOA for each source . . . per time frame k is transferred to a source separation unit . The source separation unit in one implementation may include for example a beamformer e.g. the fixed filter sum superdirective beamformer. In one implementation the beamformer is designed to maximize the array gain while maintaining a minimum constraint on the white noise gain. The frequency domain output of such a beamformer may be given by 

In one implementation a constraint is placed on the white noise gain WNG which expresses the beamformer s ability to suppress spatially white noise since some beamformers are susceptible to extensive amplification of noise at low frequencies. The WNG is a measure of the beamformer s robustness and is defined as the array gain when 1 where I is the M M identity matrix. Thus the WNG constraint can be expressed as 

In one implementation to calculate the beamformer filter coefficients an iterative procedure may be used to determine in a frequency dependent manner. In one implementation is iteratively increased by a predetermined factor say 0.005 starting from 0 until the WNG becomes equal or greater than .

Some beamformers are signal independent and may therefore be computationally efficient to implement since the filter coefficients for all steering directions need to be estimated only once and then stored offline. In one implementation an adaptive version of a beamformer may be implemented in which the filter coefficients are estimated at run time.

In one implementation for each time frame k the beamforming process employs circumflex over P concurrent beamformers. Each beamformer steers its beam to one of the directions specified by vector yielding in total circumflex over P signals 

In some embodiments for example in cases where the number of sound sources is large e.g. orchestra or the sound sources are spatially wide or far apart the beamformer may scan the sound field at user defined locations instead of real time location estimates provided by a DOA estimation algorithm to yield an equal number of beamformed signals. In some embodiments the beamformer may use both types of localization information i.e. user defined and localization estimates from another module in parallel and then combine the results. In yet another embodiment the beamformer may use a combination of localization information from the module and user by identifying dominant directional sources and less directional or spatially wide sound sources. In some other embodiments the beamformer may completely eliminate the source counting and DOA estimation method and rely only on user defined or previously stored location estimates and source count.

In one implementation a post filter is implemented following the beamformer output. The goal of the post filter is at least twofold it produces the final separated source signals and it allows downmixing of the source signals into a monophonic signal. In one implementation a post filter is applied to the beamformer output for example to enhance the source signals and cause significant cancellation of interference from other directions. In one implementation Wiener filters that are based on the auto and cross power spectral densities between microphones are applied to the output of the beamformer. In another implementation a post filter configured for overlapped speech may be used to cancel interfering speakers from the target speakers signals. During post filtering the WDO assumption may be made which also allows the separated source signals to be down mixed into one audio signal. As per this implementation it is assumed that in each time frequency element there is only one dominant sound source i.e. there is one source with significantly higher energy than the other sources . In speech signals this is a reasonable assumption since the sparse and varying nature of speech makes it unlikely that two or more speakers will carry significant energy in the same time frequency element when the number of active speakers is relatively low . Moreover it is known that the spectrogram of the additive combination of two or more speech signals is almost the same as the spectrogram formed by taking the maximum of the individual spectrograms in each time frequency element.

In some embodiments the diffuse sound may be incorporated. In one implementation the beamforming and post filtering procedure can be realized across the whole spectrum of frequencies or up to a specific beamformer or a user defined cutoff frequency. Processing only a certain range of the frequency spectrum may have several advantages such as reduction in the computational complexity especially when the sampling frequency is high and reduction in the side information that needs to be transmitted since DOA estimates are available only up to the beamformer cutoff frequency. Moreover issues related to spatial aliasing may be avoided if the beamformer is applied only to the frequency range which is free from spatial aliasing. While the DOA estimation process does not suffer from spatial aliasing as it only considers frequencies below the spatial aliasing cutoff frequency the beamformer s performance may theoretically be degraded. There are spatial audio applications which would tolerate this suboptimal approach. For example a teleconferencing application where the signal content is mostly speech and there is no need for very high audio quality could tolerate using only the frequency spectrum up to 4 kHz treating the rest of the spectrum as diffuse sound without significant degradation in source spatialization.

For the frequencies above the beamformer or user defined cutoff frequency the spectrum from an arbitrary microphone may be included in the downmixed signal without additional processing. As there are no DOA estimates available for this frequency range it is treated as diffuse sound in the decoder and reproduced by all loudspeakers in order to create a sense of immersion for the listener. However extracting information from a limited frequency range can degrade the spatial impression of the sound. For this reason including a diffuse part is optional. In another implementation the beamformer cutoff frequency may be set to f 2 such that there is no diffuse sound.

The estimated source signals either with or without the incorporated diffuse sound are then received by a reference signal and side information generator . In one implementation the reference signal is based at least on the post filtered source signals. In one implementation only the non diffuse part of the signals are used to form the reference signal. Additionally or alternatively one or more of the original time frequency signals may be used as reference. This is indicated by a dashed line. In other implementations weights may be used for different post filtered signals. In yet another implementation certain post filtered signals may be muted or ignored for reference signal generation.

According to one implementation the post filtered signals may be processed and or combined into one signal for example by summing the beamformed and post filtered signals in the frequency domain to form a reference signal. The masks implemented by the post filter are orthogonal with respect to each other This means that if U 1 for some frequency index then U 0 for s s which is also the case for the signals . Using this property the signals may be integrated to generate a reference signal indicative of the spatial characteristics of the sound field or part of the sound field desired by the user. In one implementation the reference or downmixed signal can be expressed as 

As mentioned above in other implementations some other operators besides the sum operator may be used with or without weights for generating the reference signal. In another implementation background information of one or more signals may be used for reference.

In one implementation the reference signal E is transformed back to the time domain as e t and is transmitted to the decoder along with the side information as specified by 49 . In one implementation the signal e t can also be encoded as monophonic sound with the use of some coder e.g. MP3 AAC WMA or any other audio coding format in order to reduce bitrate. Furthermore in one implementation the side information may be encoded. For example in one implementation side information can be encoded based on binary masks since the DOA estimate for each time frequency element depends on the binary masks. The active sources at a given time frame are sorted in descending order according to the number of frequency bins assigned to them. The binary mask of the first i.e. most dominant source is inserted to the bit stream. Given the orthogonality property of the binary masks the mask for the ssource at the frequency bins where at least one of the previous s 1 masks is one since the rest of the masks are zero may or may not be encoded. These locations can be identified by a simple OR operation between the s 1 previous masks. Thus for the second up to the circumflex over P 1 mask only the locations where the previous masks are all zero are inserted to the bitstream. The mask of the last source may or may not be encoded as it contains ones in the frequency bins that all the previous masks had zeros. In one implementation a look up table that associates the sources and or masks with their DOAs is also included in the bitstream. In this implementation the number of required bits does not increase linearly with the number of sources. On the contrary for each next source lesser bits are used than the previous one. It is computationally efficient since the main operations are simple OR and NOR operations. The resulted bitstream may be further compressed with Golomb entropy coding applied on the run lengths of ones and zeros.

Reproduction is possible using either headphones an arbitrary loudspeaker configuration or any other means. The reproduction of the a plurality of sources can include an interface where the listener can attenuate selected sources while enhancing others. Such selections may be based on estimated directions in the original sound field. Additionally in some embodiments the reproduction may include a mode where only one of the sources is reproduced and all others are muted. In that case in order to avoid musical noise all other muted sources could be present in the background at a lower level compared to the main or non muted sound signal so as to eliminate musical or any other type of noise.

For loudspeaker reproduction the reference or downmixed signal and side information may be used in order to create spatial audio with an arbitrary loudspeaker setup. The non diffuse and the diffuse parts if the latter exists of the spectrum are treated separately. First the signal is divided into small overlapping time frames and transformed to the STFT domain using a transform module as in the analysis stage.

In one implementation the non diffuse part of the spectrum is synthesized for example using amplitude panning such as vector base amplitude panning VBAP module at each frequency index according to its corresponding DOA from I w . Even though the description is based on VBAP panning it will be understood that other kinds of amplitude panning or methods or reproducing spatial sound may be used. By adjusting the gains of a set of loudspeakers a VBAP module not shown positions a sound source anywhere across an arc defined by two adjacent loudspeakers in a 2 dimensional case or inside a triangle defined by three loudspeakers in the 3 dimensional case. If a diffuse part is included then it is simultaneously played back from all loudspeakers.

In one implementation for Binaural Reproduction head related transfer functions HRTFs may be implemented in order to position each source in a certain direction. To this end the reference signal and side information are received at the decoder or synthesis side for reproduction of spatial sound. Such information may or may not be encoded. The non diffuse and the diffuse parts if the latter exists of the spectrum are again treated separately. First the signal is divided into small overlapping time frames and transformed to the STFT domain using TF Transform Module.

According to one implementation after transforming the downmixed or reference signal e t into the STFT domain the non diffuse part is filtered in each time frequency element with the HRTF using HRTF Filtering Module not shown based at least on the side information available in I w . Thus the left and right output channels for the non diffuse part at a given time frame are produced by HRTF HRTF 51 where HRTF is the head related transfer function for the left or right channel as a function of frequency and direction and Y Qand Y Qare signals from both the left and right channels respectively.

In one implementation the diffuse part is filtered with a diffuse field HRTF filtering module in order to make its magnitude response similar to the non diffuse part. In one implementation diffuse field HRTFs can be produced by averaging HRTFs from different directions across the whole circle around the listener. The filtering process in this case becomes the following HRTF HRTF 52 The method described above that is the one used for single sensor array is referred to as non cooperative post filter based NPFB isolation method. Sound Separation Using a Plurality of Microphone Arrays 

The systems and methods described above may be based on the assumption that the microphone array is placed in the middle of the acoustical environment that is encoded. While this is suitable for applications like teleconferencing where people are located around a room or recording a music performance where the orchestra is placed in the front area of the microphone array there are other scenarios where a single array cannot provide sufficient spatial coverage. In such scenarios the sound sources may be located such that their angular separation is too small for the array to isolate them or the sources may even be located such that they have the same DOA with respect to the array making the discrimination of the sources impossible.

For these reasons embodiments of SSL include a plurality of microphone arrays 1 2 . . . M. In one implementation SSL uses the information from the microphone arrays combined with location information about the sound sources in order to isolate them and encode the soundscape. Source isolation or separation provides accurate spatial impression and for that each source signal that is reproduced from a specific direction may not contain interfering sources. Moreover it enables listeners to focus the reproduction on a specific sound source by choosing to reproduce that source only and attenuate all the other sources present in the soundscape through a communication network .

On the recording side a plurality of arrays are placed to monitor the area. Assuming that the locations of the sources are known or can be estimated for example by fusing DOA estimates from the different arrays where each microphone array can calculate the DOAs of the sources with respect to that array by 

In one implementation exemplary method and system includes beamforming and post filtering from the closest array for each source. As the locations of the sources are known or estimated one approach can be to isolate each source using the closest array to the source as it is expected that this array would have the highest SNR for the source of interest. This approach works in the following way. In one implementation the microphone array closest to a source is selected based on the source s location. In other implementations the array in which the sources are most separated in terms of the direction may be used as beamformers could provide better spatial separation.

The DOAs of all the active sources to that array are found via 53 so as to perform beamforming and post filtering through 45 47 using the signals from that array. From the circumflex over P final separated source signals only those of the sources that are closest to that array are maintained while the separated signals of the other sources are discarded as they will be estimated from the array that is closest to them. Finally each microphone array will contribute with the separated signals of the sources that are closest to it.

In this scheme each microphone array estimates its own post filter. This method is hereinafter referred to as Post Filter based PFB isolation method Thus the binary masks are no longer orthogonal which does not allow the encoding of the soundscape in one audio signal. Moreover each array has to beamform to all sources in order to estimate and apply the post filter even though only the closest ones are maintained. As a result unnecessary beamforming operations are carried out and the computational complexity increases proportionally to the number of microphone arrays. Some gaps may arise when the sources are far apart or at a small angular separation with respect to an array. As the post filter compares energies and energy decreases with distance the array aiming to separate its closest source will provide poor beamformed signals for the sources that are far away and act as interferers degrading the source isolation performance.

To this end in one implementation the exemplary method and system includes beamforming and cooperative post filter . In one implementation each microphone array remains responsible for the sources that are closest to it but it does not individually estimate its own post filter. This method works in the following way 

Based on the sources locations the closest microphone array for each source is selected and the DOA for that source with respect to that array is calculated using 53 .

In contrast to the closest array method each array beam forms only to the sources that are closest to it using 45 . The beamformed signals B k s 1 . . . circumflex over P that now come from different arrays are used to estimate a single post filter using 46 . The final separated signals are then estimated via 47 .

This scheme is more computationally efficient than the closest array method as for circumflex over P number of sources only circumflex over P beamforming operations are needed. Moreover as a single post filter is used the orthogonality property holds which allows SSL to encode the entire soundscape into one monophonic audio signal and side information. Note that as the locations of the sources are known the side information can contain the locations and not DOAs only of the sources. The encoding scheme for the side information channel in single microphone array can also support the encoding of location information. Therefore a transform module and a filtering module may be used to reconstruct sound signals. Finally this approach is expected to perform better isolation as the beamformed signals that take part in the post filtering stage are all beamformed from the closest array i.e. with the highest SNR in contrast to the closest array method.

In order to evaluate the source isolation performance of the two methods described above a listening test was performed. The test scenario is described in and consists of three simultaneously active sources at locations L L and L. In a room of dimensions 10 10 3 meters there are N 4 circular microphone arrays at locations 1 1 9 1 9 9 1 9 meters. Each microphone array has a radius of 2 cm and consists of M 4 omnidirectional microphones. The DOAs of the sources at the three locations with respect to the 4 microphone arrays are shown in Table 3. Note that the sources are located close together in terms of angular separation with respect to all arrays Table 3 making the source isolation problem quite challenging.

A known image source method was used to produce simulated signals of omnidirectional sources in a room with reverberation time T 0.4 seconds. The signals were processed using frames of 2048 samples with 50 overlap windowed with a von Hann window. The FFT size was 4096. The approaches of Figures x and Y were used in order to isolate the three source signals. The experiment was repeated 6 times with different speakers at locations L L and L resulting in 18 isolated source signals for each method.

A preference test was also employed where listeners used headphones to listen to the reverberant source signal of the target source and the output of the two methods NPFB isolation method and PFB isolation method and they were asked to indicate which method of the two they preferred in terms of speech quality intelligibility and source isolation always comparing to the original reverberant source . The samples were randomized and the subjects did not know to which method they belonged. Eleven volunteers participated in the listening test authors not included .

The binary masks during the post filtering operation can create musical distortions in the isolated source signals. For spatial audio reproduction the source signals are played back together albeit from different directions which eliminates the musical distortion. However when the goal is to focus on the source signal from a specific location attenuating the sources from the other locations is key to maintaining low distortion in the isolated source signal. To evaluate speech distortion the Log Likelihood Ratio LLR was calculated by comparing the signal of the target source as received at the closest microphone and the methods output. Note that as the reference signal contains reverberant parts high values of LLR do not necessarily indicate high distortion. However in this way a fixed reference signal can be obtained and the LLR values for the two methods can be compared.

The LLR values averaged over the different speakers at target locations L L and Lare shown in Table 4. For each speaker the LLR was computed using 23 ms frames with 75 overlap and a Hamming window. The mean LLR value of each speaker was then computed by taking the mean over the 95 of the frames with the smallest LLR values. In good agreement with the listening test results Table 4 shows that the beamforming with NPFB isolation method maintains lower distortion in the separated signals. It is of note that for the isolated signals at location Lboth methods have similar distortion values which can explain the discrepancy in listeners preference between location Land locations Land L .

Therefore in one implementation embodiments of SSL allow the use of a plurality of microphone arrays to perform sound source isolation in the context of spatial audio recording and reproduction. One or more methods for incorporating a plurality of microphone arrays for real time spatial audio capturing and reproduction are disclosed herein. Listening test results and objective measures for speech distortion show that the beamforming with cooperative post filtering offers better source isolation and speech quality. The results show promise in the use of a plurality of microphone arrays for spatial audio recording and warrant further investigation of the performance of these methods in the presence of DOA and location estimation errors and for other types of signals such as musical instruments.

Users e.g. A which may be people and or other systems may engage information technology systems e.g. computers to facilitate information processing. In turn computers employ processors to process information such processors may be referred to as central processing units CPU . One form of processor is referred to as a microprocessor. CPUs use communicative circuits to pass binary encoded signals acting as instructions to enable various operations. These instructions may be operational and or data instructions containing and or referencing other instructions and data in various processor accessible and operable areas of memory e.g. registers cache memory random access memory etc. . Such communicative instructions may be stored and or transmitted in batches e.g. batches of instructions as programs and or data components to facilitate desired operations. These stored instruction codes e.g. programs may engage the CPU circuit components and other motherboard and or system components to perform desired operations. One type of program is a computer operating system which may be executed by the CPU on a computer the operating system enables and facilitates users to access and operate computer information technology and resources. Some resources that may be employed in information technology systems include input and output mechanisms through which data may pass into and out of a computer memory storage into which data may be saved and processors by which information may be processed. These information technology systems may be used to collect data for later retrieval analysis and manipulation which may be facilitated through a database program. These information technology systems provide interfaces that allow users to access and operate various system components.

In one embodiment the SSL controller may be connected to and or communicate with entities such as but not limited to one or more users from user input devices peripheral devices an optional cryptographic processor device and or a communications network hereinafter referred to as networks .

Networks are understood to comprise the interconnection and interoperation of clients servers and intermediary nodes in a graph topology. It should be noted that the term server as used throughout this application refers generally to a computer other device program or combination thereof that processes and responds to the requests of remote users across a communications network. Servers serve their information to requesting clients. A computer other device program or combination thereof that facilitates processes information and requests and or furthers the passage of information from a source user to a destination user is commonly referred to as a node. Networks are generally thought to facilitate the transfer of information from source points to destinations. A node specifically tasked with furthering the passage of information from a source to a destination is commonly called a router. There are many forms of networks such as Local Area Networks LANs Pico networks Wide Area Networks WANs Wireless Networks WLANs etc. For example the Internet is generally accepted as being an interconnection of a multitude of networks whereby remote clients and servers may access and interoperate with one another.

The SSL controller may be based on computer systems that may comprise but are not limited to components such as a computer systemization connected to memory .

A computer systemization may comprise a clock central processing unit CPU s and or processor s these terms are used interchangeable throughout the disclosure unless noted to the contrary a memory e.g. a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM etc. and or an interface bus and most frequently although not necessarily are all interconnected and or communicating through a system bus on one or more mother board s having conductive and or otherwise transportive circuit pathways through which instructions e.g. binary encoded signals may travel to effectuate communications operations storage etc. The computer systemization may be connected to a power source e.g. optionally the power source may be internal. Optionally a cryptographic processor and or transceivers e.g. ICs may be connected to the system bus. In another embodiment the cryptographic processor and or transceivers may be connected as either internal and or external peripheral devices via the interface bus I O. In turn the transceivers may be connected to antenna s thereby effectuating wireless transmission and reception of various communication and or sensor protocols for example the antenna s may connect to a Texas Instruments WiLink WL5283 transceiver chip e.g. providing 802.11n Bluetooth 3.0 FM global positioning system GPS thereby allowing SSL controller to determine its location Broadcom BCM4329FKUBG transceiver chip e.g. providing 802.11n Bluetooth 2.1 EDR FM etc. a Broadcom BCM4750IUB8 receiver chip e.g. GPS an Infineon Technologies X Gold 618 PMB9800 e.g. providing 2G 3G HSDPA HSUPA communications and or the like. The system clock typically has a crystal oscillator and generates a base signal through the computer systemization s circuit pathways. The clock is typically coupled to the system bus and various clock multipliers that may increase or decrease the base operating frequency for other components interconnected in the computer systemization. The clock and various components in a computer systemization drive signals embodying information throughout the system. Such transmission and reception of instructions embodying information throughout a computer systemization may be commonly referred to as communications. These communicative instructions may further be transmitted received and the cause of return and or reply communications beyond the instant computer systemization to communications networks input devices other computer systemizations peripheral devices and or the like. It should be understood that in alternative embodiments any of the above components may be connected directly to one another connected to the CPU and or organized in numerous variations employed as exemplified by various computer systems.

The CPU comprises at least one high speed data processor adequate to execute program components for executing user and or system generated requests. Often the processors themselves may incorporate various specialized processing units such as but not limited to integrated system bus controllers memory management control units floating point units and even specialized processing sub units like graphics processing units digital signal processing units and or the like. Additionally processors may include internal fast access addressable memory and be capable of mapping and addressing memory beyond the processor itself internal memory may include but is not limited to fast registers various levels of cache memory e.g. level 1 2 3 etc. RAM etc. The processor may access this memory through the use of a memory address space that is accessible via instruction address which the processor can construct and decode allowing it to access a circuit path to a specific memory address space having a memory state. The CPU may be a microprocessor such as AMD s Athlon Duron and or Opteron ARM s application embedded and secure processors IBM and or Motorola s DragonBall and PowerPC IBM s and Sony s Cell processor Intel s Celeron Core 2 Duo Itanium Pentium Xeon and or XScale and or the like processor s . The CPU interacts with memory through instruction passing through conductive and or transportive conduits e.g. printed electronic and or optic circuits to execute stored instructions i.e. program code according to conventional data processing techniques. Such instruction passing facilitates communication within the SSL controller and beyond through various interfaces. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount of speed and or capacity distributed processors e.g. Distributed SSL system mainframe multi core parallel and or super computer architectures may similarly be employed. Alternatively should deployment requirements dictate greater portability smaller Personal Digital Assistants PDAs may be employed.

Depending on the particular implementation features of the SSL system may be achieved by implementing a microcontroller such as CAST s R8051XC2 microcontroller Intel s MCS 51 i.e. 8051 microcontroller and or the like. Also to implement certain features of the SSL system some feature implementations may rely on embedded components such as Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Digital Signal Processing DSP Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA and or the like embedded technology. For example any of the SSL system component collection distributed or otherwise and or features may be implemented via the microprocessor and or via embedded components e.g. via ASIC coprocessor DSP FPGA and or the like. Alternately some implementations of the SSL system may be implemented with embedded components that are configured and used to achieve a variety of features or signal processing.

Depending on the particular implementation the embedded components may include software solutions hardware solutions and or some combination of both hardware software solutions. For example SSL system features discussed herein may be achieved through implementing FPGAs which are a semiconductor devices containing programmable logic components called logic blocks and programmable interconnects such as the high performance FPGA Virtex series and or the low cost Spartan series manufactured by Xilinx. Logic blocks and interconnects can be programmed by the customer or designer after the FPGA is manufactured to implement any of SSL system features. A hierarchy of programmable interconnects allow logic blocks to be interconnected as needed by the SSL system designer administrator somewhat like a one chip programmable breadboard. An FPGA s logic blocks can be programmed to perform the operation of basic logic gates such as AND and XOR or more complex combinational operators such as decoders or mathematical operations. In most FPGAs the logic blocks also include memory elements which may be circuit flip flops or more complete blocks of memory. In some circumstances the SSL system may be developed on regular FPGAs and then migrated into a fixed version that more resembles ASIC implementations. Alternate or coordinating implementations may migrate SSL controller features to a final ASIC instead of or in addition to FPGAs. Depending on the implementation all of the aforementioned embedded components and microprocessors may be considered the CPU and or processor for the SSL system.

The power source may be of any standard form for powering small electronic circuit board devices such as the following power cells alkaline lithium hydride lithium ion lithium polymer nickel cadmium solar cells and or the like. Other types of AC or DC power sources may be used as well. In the case of solar cells in one embodiment the case provides an aperture through which the solar cell may capture photonic energy. The power cell is connected to at least one of the interconnected subsequent components of the SSL system thereby providing an electric current to all subsequent components. In one example the power source is connected to the system bus component . In an alternative embodiment an outside power source is provided through a connection across the I O interface. For example a USB and or IEEE 1394 connection carries both data and power across the connection and is therefore a suitable source of power.

Interface bus ses may accept connect and or communicate to a number of interface adapters conventionally although not necessarily in the form of adapter cards such as but not limited to input output interfaces I O storage interfaces network interfaces and or the like. Optionally cryptographic processor interfaces similarly may be connected to the interface bus. The interface bus provides for the communications of interface adapters with one another as well as with other components of the computer systemization. Interface adapters are adapted for a compatible interface bus. Interface adapters conventionally connect to the interface bus via a slot architecture. Conventional slot architectures may be employed such as but not limited to Accelerated Graphics Port AGP Card Bus Extended Industry Standard Architecture E ISA Micro Channel Architecture MCA NuBus Peripheral Component Interconnect Extended PCI X PCI Express Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA and or the like.

Storage interfaces may accept communicate and or connect to a number of storage devices such as but not limited to storage devices removable disc devices and or the like. Storage interfaces may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to Ultra Serial Advanced Technology Attachment Packet Interface Ultra Serial ATA PI Enhanced Integrated Drive Electronics E IDE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 1394 fiber channel Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI Universal Serial Bus USB and or the like.

Network interfaces may accept communicate and or connect to a communications network . Through the communications network the SSL controller is accessible through remote clients B e.g. computers with web browsers by users A. Network interfaces may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to direct connect Ethernet thick thin twisted pair 10 500 5000 Base T and or the like Token Ring wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11a x and or the like. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount speed and or capacity distributed network controllers e.g. Distributed SSL system architectures may similarly be employed to pool load balance and or otherwise increase the communicative bandwidth required by the SSL controller . A communications network may be any one and or the combination of the following a direct interconnection the Internet a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN an Operating Missions as Nodes on the Internet OMNI a secured custom connection a Wide Area Network WAN a wireless network e.g. employing protocols such as but not limited to a Wireless Application Protocol WAP I mode and or the like and or the like. A network interface may be regarded as a specialized form of an input output interface. Further a plurality of network interfaces may be used to engage with various communications network types . For example a plurality of network interfaces may be employed to allow for the communication over broadcast multicast and or unicast networks.

Input Output interfaces I O may accept communicate and or connect to user input devices peripheral devices cryptographic processor devices and or the like. I O may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to audio analog digital monaural RCA stereo and or the like data Apple Desktop Bus ADB IEEE 1394a b serial universal serial bus USB infrared joystick keyboard midi optical PC AT PS 2 parallel radio video interface Apple Desktop Connector ADC BNC coaxial component composite digital Digital Visual Interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RCA RF antennae S Video VGA and or the like wireless transceivers 802.11a b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. code division a plurality of access CDMA high speed packet access HSPA high speed downlink packet access HSDPA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE WiMax etc. and or the like. One typical output device may include a video display which typically comprises a Cathode Ray Tube CRT or Liquid Crystal Display LCD based monitor with an interface e.g. DVI circuitry and cable that accepts signals from a video interface may be used. The video interface composites information generated by a computer systemization and generates video signals based on the composited information in a video memory frame. Another output device is a television set which accepts signals from a video interface. Typically the video interface provides the composited video information through a video connection interface that accepts a video display interface e.g. an RCA composite video connector accepting an RCA composite video cable a DVI connector accepting a DVI display cable etc. .

User input devices often are a type of peripheral device see below and may include card readers dongles finger print readers gloves graphics tablets joysticks keyboards microphones mouse mice remote controls retina readers touch screens e.g. capacitive resistive etc. trackballs trackpads sensors e.g. accelerometers ambient light GPS gyroscopes proximity etc. styluses and or the like.

Peripheral devices may be connected and or communicate to I O and or other facilities of the like such as network interfaces storage interfaces directly to the interface bus system bus the CPU and or the like. Peripheral devices may be external internal and or part of the SSL controller . Peripheral devices may include antenna audio devices e.g. line in line out microphone input speakers etc. cameras e.g. still video webcam etc. dongles e.g. for copy protection ensuring secure transactions with a digital signature and or the like external processors for added capabilities e.g. crypto devices force feedback devices e.g. vibrating motors network interfaces printers scanners storage devices transceivers e.g. cellular GPS etc. video devices e.g. goggles monitors etc. video sources visors and or the like. Peripheral devices often include types of input devices e.g. cameras .

It should be noted that although user input devices and peripheral devices may be employed the SSL controller may be embodied as an embedded dedicated and or monitor less i.e. headless device wherein access would be provided over a network interface connection.

Cryptographic units such as but not limited to microcontrollers processors interfaces and or devices may be attached and or communicate with the SSL controller . A MC68HC16 microcontroller manufactured by Motorola Inc. may be used for and or within cryptographic units. The MC68HC16 microcontroller utilizes a 16 bit multiply and accumulate instruction in the 16 MHz configuration and requires less than one second to perform a 512 bit RSA private key operation. Cryptographic units support the authentication of communications from interacting agents as well as allowing for anonymous transactions. Cryptographic units may also be configured as part of the CPU. Equivalent microcontrollers and or processors may also be used. Other commercially available specialized cryptographic processors include Broadcom s CryptoNetX and other Security Processors nCipher s nShield SafeNet s Luna PCI e.g. 7500 series Semaphore Communications 40 MHz Roadrunner 184 Sun s Cryptographic Accelerators e.g. Accelerator 6000 PCIe Board Accelerator 500 Daughtercard Via Nano Processor e.g. L2500 L2200 U2400 line which is capable of performing 500 MB s of cryptographic instructions VLSI Technology s 33 MHz 6868 and or the like.

Generally any mechanization and or embodiment allowing a processor to affect the storage and or retrieval of information is regarded as memory . However memory is a fungible technology and resource thus any number of memory embodiments may be employed in lieu of or in concert with one another. It is to be understood that the SSL controller and or a computer systemization may employ various forms of memory . For example a computer systemization may be configured wherein the operation of on chip CPU memory e.g. registers RAM ROM and any other storage devices are provided by a paper punch tape or paper punch card mechanism however such an embodiment would result in an extremely slow rate of operation. In a typical configuration memory may include ROM RAM and a storage device . A storage device may be any conventional computer system storage. Storage devices may include a drum a fixed and or removable magnetic disk drive a magneto optical drive an optical drive i.e. Blueray CD ROM RAM Recordable R ReWritable RW DVD R RW HD DVD R RW etc. an array of devices e.g. Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID solid state memory devices USB memory solid state drives SSD etc. other processor readable storage mediums and or other devices of the like. Thus a computer systemization generally requires and makes use of memory.

The memory may contain a collection of program and or database components and or data such as but not limited to operating system component s operating system information server component s information server user interface component s user interface Web browser component s Web browser SSL database s mail server component s mail client component s crypto graphic server component s cryptographic server the SSL component s the source counting component the reproduction component the post filtering component the DOA estimation component the DOA estimation component the source separation component the source localizer component and the other component s and or the like i.e. collectively a component collection . These components may be stored and accessed from the storage devices and or from storage devices accessible through an interface bus. Although non conventional program components such as those in the component collection typically are stored in a local storage device they may also be loaded and or stored in memory such as peripheral devices RAM remote storage facilities through a communications network ROM various forms of memory and or the like.

The operating system component is an executable program component facilitating the operation of the SSL controller . Typically the operating system facilitates access of I O network interfaces peripheral devices storage devices and or the like. The operating system may be a highly fault tolerant scalable and secure system such as Apple Macintosh OS X Server AT T Plan 9 Be OS Unix and Unix like system distributions such as AT T s UNIX Berkley Software Distribution BSD variations such as FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD and or the like Linux distributions such as Red Hat Ubuntu and or the like and or the like operating systems. However more limited and or less secure operating systems also may be employed such as Apple Macintosh OS IBM OS 2 Microsoft DOS Microsoft Windows 2000 2003 3.1 95 98 CE Millenium NTNista XP Server Palm OS and or the like. An operating system may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or the like. Most frequently the operating system communicates with other program components user interfaces and or the like. For example the operating system may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses. The operating system once executed by the CPU may enable the interaction with communications networks data I O peripheral devices program components memory user input devices and or the like. The operating system may provide communications protocols that allow the SSL controller to communicate with other entities through a communications network . Various communication protocols may be used by the SSL controller as a subcarrier transport mechanism for interaction such as but not limited to multicast TCP IP UDP unicast and or the like.

An information server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The information server may be a conventional Internet information server such as but not limited to Apache Software Foundation s Apache Microsoft s Internet Information Server and or the like. The information server may allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as Active Server Page ASP ActiveX ANSI Objective C C and or .NET Common Gateway Interface CGI scripts dynamic D hypertext markup language HTML FLASH Java JavaScript Practical Extraction Report Language PERL Hypertext Pre Processor PHP pipes Python wireless application protocol WAP WebObjects and or the like. The information server may support secure communications protocols such as but not limited to File Transfer Protocol FTP HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS Secure Socket Layer SSL messaging protocols e.g. America Online AOL Instant Messenger AIM Application Exchange APEX ICQ Internet Relay Chat IRC Microsoft Network MSN Messenger Service Presence and Instant Messaging Protocol PRIM Internet Engineering Task Force s IETF s Session Initiation Protocol SIP SIP for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE open XML based Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP i.e. Jabber or Open Mobile Alliance s OMA s Instant Messaging and Presence Service IMPS Yahoo Instant Messenger Service and or the like. The information server provides results in the form of Web pages to Web browsers and allows for the manipulated generation of the Web pages through interaction with other program components. After a Domain Name System DNS resolution portion of an HTTP request is resolved to a particular information server the information server resolves requests for information at specified locations on the SSL controller based on the remainder of the HTTP request. For example a request such as http 123.124.125.526 myInformation.html might have the IP portion of the request 123.124.125.526 resolved by a DNS server to an information server at that IP address that information server might in turn further parse the http request for the myInformation.html portion of the request and resolve it to a location in memory containing the information myInformation.html. Additionally other information serving protocols may be employed across various ports e.g. FTP communications across port and or the like. An information server may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the information server communicates with the SSL database operating systems other program components user interfaces Web browsers and or the like.

Access to the SSL system database may be achieved through a number of database bridge mechanisms such as through scripting languages as enumerated below e.g. CGI and through inter application communication channels as enumerated below e.g. CORBA WebObjects etc. . Any data requests through a Web browser are parsed through the bridge mechanism into appropriate grammars as required by the SSL system. In one embodiment the information server would provide a Web form accessible by a Web browser. Entries made into supplied fields in the Web form are tagged as having been entered into the particular fields and parsed as such. The entered terms are then passed along with the field tags which act to instruct the parser to generate queries directed to appropriate tables and or fields. In one embodiment the parser may generate queries in standard SQL by instantiating a search string with the proper join select commands based on the tagged text entries wherein the resulting command is provided over the bridge mechanism to the SSL system as a query. Upon generating query results from the query the results are passed over the bridge mechanism and may be parsed for formatting and generation of a new results Web page by the bridge mechanism. Such a new results Web page is then provided to the information server which may supply it to the requesting Web browser.

Also an information server may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

Computer interfaces in some respects are similar to automobile operation interfaces. Automobile operation interface elements such as steering wheels gearshifts and speedometers facilitate the access operation and display of automobile resources and status. Computer interaction interface elements such as check boxes cursors menus scrollers and windows collectively and commonly referred to as widgets similarly facilitate the access capabilities operation and display of data and computer hardware and operating system resources and status. Operation interfaces are commonly called user interfaces. Graphical user interfaces GUIs such as the Apple Macintosh Operating System s Aqua IBM s OS 2 Microsoft s Windows 2000 2003 3.1 95 98 CE Millenium NT XP Vista 7 i.e. Aero Unix s X Windows e.g. which may include additional Unix graphic interface libraries and layers such as K Desktop Environment KDE mythTV and GNU Network Object Model Environment GNOME web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX AJAX D HTML FLASH Java JavaScript etc. interface libraries such as but not limited to Dojo jQuery UI MooTools Prototype script.aculo.us SWFObject Yahoo User Interface any of which may be used and provide a baseline and means of accessing and displaying information graphically to users.

A user interface component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The user interface may be a conventional graphic user interface as provided by with and or atop operating systems and or operating environments such as already discussed. The user interface may allow for the display execution interaction manipulation and or operation of program components and or system facilities through textual and or graphical facilities. The user interface provides a facility through which users may affect interact and or operate a computer system. A user interface may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the user interface communicates with operating systems other program components and or the like. The user interface may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

A Web browser component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The Web browser may be a conventional hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer or Netscape Navigator. Secure Web browsing may be supplied with 528 bit or greater encryption by way of HTTPS SSL and or the like. Web browsers allowing for the execution of program components through facilities such as ActiveX AJAX D HTML FLASH Java JavaScript web browser plug in APIs e.g. FireFox Safari Plug in and or the like APIs and or the like. Web browsers and like information access tools may be integrated into PDAs cellular telephones and or other mobile devices. A Web browser may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the Web browser communicates with information servers operating systems integrated program components e.g. plug ins and or the like e.g. it may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses. Also in place of a Web browser and information server a combined application may be developed to perform similar operations of both. The combined application would similarly affect the obtaining and the provision of information to users user agents and or the like from the SSL system enabled nodes. The combined application may be nugatory on systems employing standard Web browsers.

A mail server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU . The mail server may be a conventional Internet mail server such as but not limited to sendmail Microsoft Exchange and or the like. The mail server may allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI Objective C C and or .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP pipes Python WebObjects and or the like. The mail server may support communications protocols such as but not limited to Internet message access protocol IMAP Messaging Application Programming Interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP3 simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and or the like. The mail server can route forward and process incoming and outgoing mail messages that have been sent relayed and or otherwise traversing through and or to the SSL system.

Access to the SSL system mail may be achieved through a number of APIs offered by the individual Web server components and or the operating system.

Also a mail server may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests information and or responses.

A mail client component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU . The mail client may be a conventional mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Microsoft Outlook Express Mozilla Thunderbird and or the like. Mail clients may support a number of transfer protocols such as IMAP Microsoft Exchange POP3 SMTP and or the like. A mail client may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the mail client communicates with mail servers operating systems other mail clients and or the like e.g. it may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests information and or responses. Generally the mail client provides a facility to compose and transmit electronic mail messages.

A cryptographic server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU cryptographic processor cryptographic processor interface cryptographic processor device and or the like. Cryptographic processor interfaces may allow for expedition of encryption and or decryption requests by the cryptographic component however the cryptographic component alternatively may run on a conventional CPU. The cryptographic component allows for the encryption and or decryption of provided data. The cryptographic component allows for both symmetric and asymmetric e.g. Pretty Good Protection PGP encryption and or decryption. The cryptographic component may employ cryptographic techniques such as but not limited to digital certificates e.g. X.509 authentication framework digital signatures dual signatures enveloping password access protection public key management and or the like. The cryptographic component may facilitate numerous encryption and or decryption security protocols such as but not limited to checksum Data Encryption Standard DES Elliptical Curve Encryption ECC International Data Encryption Algorithm IDEA Message Digest 5 MD5 which is a one way hash operation passwords Rivest Cipher RC5 Rijndael RSA which is an Internet encryption and authentication system that uses an algorithm developed in 1977 by Ron Rivest Adi Shamir and Leonard Adleman Secure Hash Algorithm SHA Secure Socket Layer SSL Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS and or the like. Employing such encryption security protocols the SSL system may encrypt all incoming and or outgoing communications and may serve as node within a virtual private network VPN with a wider communications network. The cryptographic component facilitates the process of security authorization whereby access to a resource is inhibited by a security protocol wherein the cryptographic component effects authorized access to the secured resource. In addition the cryptographic component may provide unique identifiers of content e.g. employing and MD5 hash to obtain a unique signature for an digital audio file. A cryptographic component may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. The cryptographic component supports encryption schemes allowing for the secure transmission of information across a communications network to enable the SSL system component to engage in secure transactions if so desired. The cryptographic component facilitates the secure accessing of resources on the SSL system and facilitates the access of secured resources on remote systems i.e. it may act as a client and or server of secured resources. Most frequently the cryptographic component communicates with information servers operating systems other program components and or the like. The cryptographic component may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

The SSL database component may be embodied in a database and its stored data. The database is a stored program component which is executed by the CPU the stored program component portion configuring the CPU to process the stored data. The database may be a conventional fault tolerant relational scalable secure database such as Oracle or Sybase. Relational databases are an extension of a flat file. Relational databases consist of a series of related tables. The tables are interconnected via a key field. Use of the key field allows the combination of the tables by indexing against the key field i.e. the key fields act as dimensional pivot points for combining information from various tables. Relationships generally identify links maintained between tables by matching primary keys. Primary keys represent fields that uniquely identify the rows of a table in a relational database. More precisely they uniquely identify rows of a table on the one side of a one to many relationship.

Alternatively the SSL database may be implemented using various standard data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table and or the like. Such data structures may be stored in memory and or in structured files. In another alternative an object oriented database may be used such as Frontier ObjectStore Poet Zope and or the like. Object databases can include a number of object collections that are grouped and or linked together by common attributes they may be related to other object collections by some common attributes. Object oriented databases perform similarly to relational databases with the exception that objects are not just pieces of data but may have other types of capabilities encapsulated within a given object. If the SSL database is implemented as a data structure the use of the SSL database may be integrated into another component such as the SSL system component . Also the database may be implemented as a mix of data structures objects and relational structures. Databases may be consolidated and or distributed in countless variations through standard data processing techniques. Portions of databases e.g. tables may be exported and or imported and thus decentralized and or integrated.

In one embodiment the SSL database component includes data tables A F. In one embodiment the sources table A may include fields such as but not limited to source location source count source DOA and or the like.

A grid points table B may include fields such as but not limited to grid points gridarea shape of microphones array number of microphones microphones relative positions microphones sensitivities microphones gains microphones electronics delays filters and or the like.

A histogram table C may include fields such as but not limited to histogram option ID time frequency transformation method DOA estimation method single source identification method cross correlation definition frequency range limits theresholds sources counting methods filters property ID user ID and or the like.

A decoded data D may include fields such as but not limited to timestamp data ID channel signal estimated DOAs uncertainty duration frequency range moduli noise level active filters option ID property ID user ID and or the like. The Decoded Data table may support and or track a plurality of entity accounts on an SSL.

A DOA table E may include fields such as but not limited to timestamp DOA ID estimated DOA counted hits tolerance confidence level event ID and or the like. The DOA table may support and or track a plurality of entity accounts on a SSL.

The other data table F includes all other data generated as a result of processing by modules within the SSL component . For example the other data F may include temporary data tables aggregated data extracted data mapped data etc. encoded data such as estimated number of sources and their DOAs. In one embodiment the SSL database may interact with other database systems. For example employing a distributed database system queries and data access by search SSL system component may treat the combination of the SSL database an integrated data security layer database as a single database entity.

In one embodiment user programs may contain various user interface primitives which may serve to update the SSL system. Also various accounts may require custom database tables depending upon the environments and the types of clients the SSL system may need to serve. It should be noted that any unique fields may be designated as a key field throughout. In an alternative embodiment these tables have been decentralized into their own databases and their respective database controllers i.e. individual database controllers for each of the above tables . Employing standard data processing techniques one may further distribute the databases over several computer systemizations and or storage devices. Similarly configurations of the decentralized database controllers may be varied by consolidating and or distributing the various database components A F. The SSL system may be configured to keep track of various settings inputs and parameters via database controllers.

The SSL database may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the SSL database communicates with the SSL system component other program components and or the like. The database may contain retain and provide information regarding other nodes and data.

The SSL system component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. In one embodiment the SSL system component incorporates any and or all combinations of the aspects of the SSL system that was discussed in the previous figures. As such the SSL system affects accessing obtaining and the provision of information services transactions and or the like across various communications networks.

The SSL component may transform sound signals via SSL components into sound source s characterization information and or the like and use of the SSL. In one embodiment the SSL component takes inputs e.g. sound signals and or the like etc. and transforms the inputs via various components e.g. Source Counting Component Reproduction Component Post Filtering Component DOA Estimation Component Source Separation Component Source Localizer Component and or the like into outputs e.g. DOAs number of sources tolerance confidence and or the like .

The SSL component enabling access of information between nodes may be developed by employing standard development tools and languages such as but not limited to Apache components Assembly ActiveX binary executables ANSI Objective C C and or .NET database adapters CGI scripts Java JavaScript mapping tools procedural and object oriented development tools PERL PHP Python shell scripts SQL commands web application server extensions web development environments and libraries e.g. Microsoft s ActiveX Adobe AIR FLEX FLASH AJAX D HTML Dojo Java JavaScript jQuery UI MooTools Prototype script.aculo.us Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP SWFObject Yahoo User Interface and or the like WebObjects and or the like. In one embodiment the SSL system server employs a cryptographic server to encrypt and decrypt communications. The SSL system component may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the SSL system component communicates with the SSL system database operating systems other program components and or the like. The SSL system may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

The structure and or operation of any of the SSL system node controller components may be combined consolidated and or distributed in any number of ways to facilitate development and or deployment. Similarly the component collection may be combined in any number of ways to facilitate deployment and or development. To accomplish this one may integrate the components into a common code base or in a facility that can dynamically load the components on demand in an integrated fashion.

The component collection may be consolidated and or distributed in countless variations through standard data processing and or development techniques. A plurality of instances of any one of the program components in the program component collection may be instantiated on a single node and or across numerous nodes to improve performance through load balancing and or data processing techniques. Furthermore single instances may also be distributed across a plurality of controllers and or storage devices e.g. databases. All program component instances and controllers working in concert may do so through standard data processing communication techniques.

The configuration of the SSL controller may depend on the context of system deployment. Factors such as but not limited to the budget capacity location and or use of the underlying hardware resources may affect deployment requirements and configuration. Regardless of if the configuration results in more consolidated and or integrated program components results in a more distributed series of program components and or results in some combination between a consolidated and distributed configuration data may be communicated obtained and or provided. Instances of components consolidated into a common code base from the program component collection may communicate obtain and or provide data. This may be accomplished through intra application data processing communication techniques such as but not limited to data referencing e.g. pointers internal messaging object instance variable communication shared memory space variable passing and or the like.

If component collection components are discrete separate and or external to one another then communicating obtaining and or providing data with and or to other component components may be accomplished through inter application data processing communication techniques such as but not limited to Application Program Interfaces API information passage distributed Component Object Model D COM Distributed Object Linking and Embedding D OLE and or the like Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA Jini local and remote application program interfaces JavaScript Object Notation JSON Remote Method Invocation RMI SOAP process pipes shared files and or the like. Messages sent between discrete component components for inter application communication or within memory spaces of a singular component for intra application communication may be facilitated through the creation and parsing of a grammar. A grammar may be developed by using development tools such as lex yacc XML and or the like which allow for grammar generation and parsing capabilities which in turn may form the basis of communication messages within and between components.

where Value1 is discerned as being a parameter because http is part of the grammar syntax and what follows is considered part of the post value. Similarly with such a grammar a variable Value1 may be inserted into an http post command and then sent. The grammar syntax itself may be presented as structured data that is interpreted and or otherwise used to generate the parsing mechanism e.g. a syntax description text file as processed by lex yacc etc. . Also once the parsing mechanism is generated and or instantiated it itself may process and or parse structured data such as but not limited to character e.g. tab delineated text HTML structured text streams XML and or the like structured data. In another embodiment inter application data processing protocols themselves may have integrated and or readily available parsers e.g. JSON SOAP and or like parsers that may be employed to parse e.g. communications data. Further the parsing grammar may be used beyond message parsing but may also be used to parse databases data collections data stores structured data and or the like. Again the desired configuration may depend upon the context environment and requirements of system deployment.

For example in some implementations the SSL controller may be executing a PHP script implementing a Secure Sockets Layer SSL socket server via the information sherver which listens to incoming communications on a server port to which a client may send data e.g. data encoded in JSON format. Upon identifying an incoming communication the PHP script may read the incoming message from the client device parse the received JSON encoded text data to extract information from the JSON encoded text data into PHP script variables and store the data e.g. client identifying information etc. and or extracted information in a relational database accessible using the Structured Query Language SQL . An exemplary listing written substantially in the form of PHP SQL commands to accept JSON encoded input data from a client device via a SSL connection parse the data to extract variables and store the data to a database is provided below 

Also the following resources may be used to provide example embodiments regarding SOAP parser implementation 

In order to address various issues and advance the art the entirety of this application for SPATIAL SOUND LOCALIZATION AND ISOLATION APPARATUSES METHODS AND SYSTEMS including the Cover Page Title Headings Field Background Summary Brief Description of the Drawings Detailed Description Claims Abstract Figures Appendices and otherwise shows by way of illustration various embodiments in which the claimed present subject matters may be practiced. The advantages and features of the application are of a representative sample of embodiments only and are not exhaustive and or exclusive. They are presented only to assist in understanding and teach the claimed principles. It should be understood that they are not representative of all claimed present subject matters. As such certain aspects of the disclosure have not been discussed herein. That alternative embodiments may not have been presented for a specific portion of the present subject matter or that further undescribed alternate embodiments may be available for a portion is not to be considered a disclaimer of those alternate embodiments. It may be appreciated that many of those undescribed embodiments incorporate the same principles of the present subject matters and others are equivalent. Thus it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and functional logical operational organizational structural and or topological modifications may be made without departing from the scope and or spirit of the disclosure. As such all examples and or embodiments are deemed to be non limiting throughout this disclosure. Also no inference should be drawn regarding those embodiments discussed herein relative to those not discussed herein other than it is as such for purposes of reducing space and repetition. For instance it is to be understood that the logical and or topological structure of any combination of any components a component collection other components and or any present feature sets as described in the figures and or throughout are not limited to a fixed operating order and or arrangement but rather any disclosed order is exemplary and all equivalents regardless of order are contemplated by the disclosure. Furthermore it is to be understood that such features are not limited to serial execution but rather any number of threads processes services servers and or the like that may execute asynchronously concurrently in parallel simultaneously synchronously and or the like are contemplated by the disclosure. As such some of these features may be mutually contradictory in that they cannot be simultaneously present in a single embodiment. Similarly some features are applicable to one aspect of the present subject matter and inapplicable to others. The disclosure includes other present subject matters not presently claimed. Applicant reserves all rights in those presently unclaimed present subject matters including the right to claim such present subject matters file additional applications continuations continuations in part divisions and or the like thereof. As such it should be understood that advantages embodiments examples functional features logical operational organizational structural topological and or other aspects of the disclosure are not to be considered limitations on the disclosure as defined by the claims or limitations on equivalents to the claims. It is to be understood that depending on the particular needs and or characteristics of a SSL system individual and or enterprise user database configuration and or relational model data type data transmission and or network framework syntax structure and or the like various embodiments of the SSL system may be implemented that enable a great deal of flexibility and customization. While various embodiments and discussions of the SSL system may have included reference to sound source characterization it is to be understood that the embodiments described herein may be readily configured and or customized for variety of other applications and or implementations.

