---

title: Video mail capture, processing and distribution
abstract: Novel tools and techniques are provided for enabling or implementing video mail capture, processing, and distribution. In response to a first video calling device receiving a video call from a caller at a second video calling device, the first video calling device, which is associated with a user or callee, might determine whether the user is available to answer the video call. If not, one of the first or second video calling devices might prompt the caller to leave a videomail message, and might record and upload the videomail message to a server over a network for post-processing and/or storage. A notification may be sent to the user regarding the videomail message. The user may be provided with options to view the videomail message and/or to respond to the videomail message. In some cases, the first and second video calling devices might be of different make or model.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09300910&OS=09300910&RS=09300910
owner: Biscotti Inc.
number: 09300910
owner_city: Plano
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140131
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of the following applications provisional U.S. Patent Application No. 61 877 928 filed Sep. 13 2013 by Ahmed et al. and titled Mobile Presence Detection provisional U.S. Patent Application No. 61 874 903 filed Sep. 6 2013 by Shoemake et al. and titled Virtual Window provisional U.S. Patent Application No. 61 872 603 filed Aug. 30 2013 by Shoemake et al. and titled Physical Presence and Advertising provisional U.S. Patent Application No. 61 858 518 filed Jul. 25 2013 by Shoemake et al. and titled Video Calling and Conferencing Advertising and provisional U.S. Patent Application No. 61 759 621 filed Feb. 1 2013 by Shoemake et al. and titled Video Mail Capture Processing and Distribution . This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 106 263 filed on Dec. 13 2013 by Shoemake et al. and titled Video Capture Processing and Distribution System which claims the benefit of provisional U.S. Patent Application No. 61 737 506 filed Dec. 14 2012 by Shoemake et al. and titled Video Capture Processing and Distribution System This application is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 106 279 filed on Dec. 13 2013 by Ahmed et al. and titled Mobile Presence Detection and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 106 360 filed on Dec. 13 2013 by Ahmed et al. and titled Distributed Infrastructure .

The respective disclosures of these applications patents which this document refers to collectively as the Related Applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present disclosure relates in general to video calling and more particularly to tools and techniques for enabling or implementing video mail capture processing and distribution.

The proliferation of capable user devices pervasive communication and increased bandwidth has provided opportunity for many enhanced services for users. One example is video calling. Once the domain of high end dedicated systems from vendors such as POLYCOM video calling has become available to the average consumer at a reasonable cost. For example the Biscotti device available from Biscotti Inc. provides an inexpensive tool to allow video calling using a high definition television and an Internet connection. More generally a class of devices which have been described as video calling devices but are referred to herein as video communication devices VCDs can be simultaneously connected to a display such as a television to name one example and a source of content such as a set top box STB to name an example in a pass through configuration and can have a network connection and or sensors such as a camera a microphone infrared sensors and or other suitable sensors. Such devices present a powerful platform for various applications. Examples include without limitation video calling instant messaging presence detection status updates media streaming over the Internet web content viewing gaming and DVR capability. Another example of such value added services is the introduction of online gaming. Rather than playing a game by him or herself a user now can play most games in a multiplayer mode using communication over the Internet or another network.

Enabling such services is a new class of user device which generally features relatively high end processing capability which would have been unthinkable outside supercomputing labs just a few years ago substantial random access memory and relatively vast non transient storage capabilities including hard drives solid state drives and the like. Such user devices can include without limitation the VCDs mentioned above the presence detection devices PDDs described in the 279 application various video game consoles and the like. Such devices generally have a reliable and relatively high speed connection to the Internet to enable the value added services and significant amounts of downtime in which the processing and other capabilities of the devices are unused.

Additionally some existing products offer video mail. However implementation of such existing video mail services depend on both parties i.e. caller and callee to have the same product because such existing products are based on the calling device recording the video mail and thus must be able to intercommunicate with or otherwise be compatible with the called device in order to record and leave a video mail. This is a major limitation as the caller the person leaving the video mail must also have the same product as the callee which limits the utility of the video mail feature.

Hence there is a need for solutions that allow for more flexible video mail implementations and or for more flexible configuration options thereof as well as for more flexible remote access to video mail and some such solutions can employ the powerful user devices already resident in many users homes.

A set of embodiments provides tools and techniques for enabling or implementing video mail capture processing and distribution.

In some embodiments the video mail or video mail data hereinafter also referred to as videomail and videomail data respectively may be post processed on a computer in the network which can include a control server s a central server s another image capture device s and or the like. In some cases distributed hosting including cloud based computing cloud based application hosting cloud based data storage and or content delivery network service or the like as described in detail in the 360 application already incorporated herein may be utilized to perform post processing of video mail or video mail data to store raw as well as processed video mail data to share video mail data captured by the Internet connected cameras including raw and processed video and or images to host a website for allowing a user to control such functionalities to access the video mail and or the like.

In some instances presence detection techniques and presence detection devices PDDs described in detail in the 279 application may be used to allow for automatic identification and authentication to enable the user to establish or modify preferences or settings for video mail to initiate post processing of captured video mail data to instruct storing of raw as well as processed video mail data to share video mail data captured by the Internet connected cameras including raw and processed video mail data to control such functionalities and or the like regardless of where the user is so long as the user is in front of a suitable device capable of identification and authentication of the user to provide the user access to a master account for controlling these functionalities. In other words a profile for accessing control of the above mentioned functionalities as well as the raw processed captured video mail data can follow the user.

The tools provided by various embodiments include without limitation methods systems and or software products. Merely by way of example a method might comprise one or more procedures any or all of which are executed by a video calling device a PDD and or a computer system. Correspondingly an embodiment might provide a video calling device a PDD and or a computer system configured with instructions to perform one or more procedures in accordance with methods provided by various other embodiments. Similarly a computer program might comprise a set of instructions that are executable by a video calling device a PDD and or a computer system and or a processor therein to perform such operations. In many cases such software programs are encoded on physical tangible and or non transitory computer readable media such as to name but a few examples optical media magnetic media and or the like .

In an aspect a method might comprise receiving at a first video calling device associated with a user and over a network a video call from a caller at a second video calling device. The method might also comprise determining with one or both of the first video calling device or the second video calling device that the user is unable to answer the video call. The method might further comprise recording with the first video calling device that receives the call a videomail message from the video call based at least in part on a determination that the user is unable to answer the video call. In some embodiments the method might further comprise prompting with the first video calling device associated with the user the caller to leave the videomail message.

According to some embodiments the first video calling device and the second video calling device are at least one of made by different manufacturers or of different models of calling device.

In some embodiments the method might comprise uploading over the network at least a portion of the videomail message to a server for post processing. In some cases uploading over the network at least a portion of the videomail message to a server for post processing might comprise uploading at least a portion of each of one or more components of the videomail message. The one or more components of the videomail message might comprise an audio component a video component and a timecode component. In some instances post processing might comprise scaling video of the videomail message to a specified resolution. Alternatively or additionally post processing might comprise mixing audio and video of the videomail message by reference to a timecode. In other instances post processing might comprise adding a visible watermark to the videomail message. In some cases post processing might comprise formatting the videomail message as a video viewable by a web browser. Post processing might also comprise formatting the videomail message for downloading by the user or formatting the videomail message for viewing on a user device.

According to some aspects the method might further comprise providing a notification to the user regarding the videomail message. In some embodiments the notification might comprise an e mail message with a link to a formatted video comprising the videomail message. In some instances the method might further comprise creating a uniform resource locator URL addressing the formatted video. The link might include the URL addressing the formatted video. Alternatively the notification might comprise an e mail message in which the videomail message is one of an attached videomail message or an embedded videomail message. In yet another alternative the notification might comprise a text message including without limitation a short message service SMS message a multimedia message service MMS and or the like with a link to a formatted video comprising the videomail message.

In some embodiments the method might comprise recording a timecode file to a storage medium at one of the first video calling device the second video calling device or the server. The timecode file might indicate when each frame of video of the videomail message should be displayed and indicating when each frame of audio of the videomail message should be played. The method might further comprise synchronizing at the one of the first video calling device the second video calling device or the server audio and video from the videomail message based at least in part on the recorded timecode file. In some cases uploading the videomail message to the server might comprise uploading an audio file a video file and the timecode to the server.

According to some embodiments each of at least one of the first video calling device or the second video calling device might comprise a first video input interface to receive first video input from a first local content source a first audio input interface to receive first audio input from the first local content source a first video output interface to provide first video output to a first video display device a first audio output interface to provide first audio output to a first audio receiver a first video capture device to capture at least one of first image data or first video data a first audio capture device to capture first audio data a first network interface at least one first processor and a first storage medium in communication with the at least one first processor.

The method in some embodiments might further comprise registering with a first computer a master account for the user assigning with the first computer the first video calling device to the master account authenticating the user at the first computer using a set of credentials associated with the master account and accessing the first video calling device from the first computer over the network after authenticating the user. The method might also comprise providing a user interface from the first computer over the network and receiving by the first computer user input associated with options presented by the user interface. The options might include one or more of options for establishing user preferences for videomail messages options for modifying user preferences for videomail messages options for deleting user preferences for videomail messages options for notifying the user regarding videomail messages or options for responding to videomail messages. The network in some instances is the Internet and the user interface comprises a web page. In some embodiments the method might further comprise receiving a request from the user to view the videomail message and displaying the videomail message with the user interface.

According to some embodiments the first computer is one of the first video calling device or the second video calling device. In some instances receiving user input might comprise receiving user input from a third video calling device. The third video calling device might comprise a second video input interface to receive second video input from a second local content source a second audio input interface to receive second audio input from the second local content source a second video output interface to provide second video output to a second video display device a second audio output interface to provide second audio output to a second audio receiver a second video capture device to capture at least one of second image data or second video data a second audio capture device to capture second audio data a second network interface at least one second processor and a second storage medium in communication with the at least one second processor. The method might further comprise providing the user with access over the network to at least one of the first video calling device or the master account.

In some embodiments the method might further comprise collecting presence information with the third video calling device detecting presence of the user with the third video calling device based at least in part on the presence information identifying the user with a second computer based at least in part on identifying information derived from at least a portion of the presence information and in response to identifying the user providing over the third video calling device options for the user to view any videomail messages left for the user. In some instances identifying the user might comprise one or more of analyzing with the second computer at least one of captured second image data or captured second video data using facial recognition software comparing with the second computer at least a portion of the captured second audio data with a voiceprint comparing with the second computer at least a portion of the captured second audio data with stored challenge response information determining with the second computer whether a username and a password inputted by the user matches a pre stored username and a pre stored password associated with the user determining with the second computer whether a user device that is detected in proximity to the presence detection device is a device associated with the user or detecting a presence of a user device that is associated with the user based on at least one of detecting a Bluetooth connection of the user device detecting that the user device is associated with a WiFi access point with which the presence detection device has associated or communicating with the user device using near field communication NFC .

In another aspect an apparatus might comprise one or more processors and a computer readable medium in communication with the one or more processors. The computer readable medium might have encoded thereon a set of instructions executable by the one or more processors to cause the apparatus to perform one or more operations. The set of instructions might comprise instructions for receiving a video call from a video calling device instructions for determining that the user is unable to answer the video call and instructions for recording a videomail message from the video call based at least in part on a determination that the user is unable to answer the video call.

In yet another aspect a video calling device might comprise one or more processors and a computer readable medium in communication with the one or more processors. The computer readable medium might have encoded thereon a set of instructions executable by the one or more processors to cause the video calling device to perform one or more operations. The set of instructions might comprise instructions for instructions for sending a video call to an apparatus instructions for determining that a callee associated with the apparatus is not available to answer the video call instructions for recording a videomail message from the video call based at least in part on a determination that the callee is unable to answer the video call and instructions to send a notification to the callee with instructions to access the videomail message.

In still another aspect a system might comprise a first video calling device associated with a user and a server computer. The first video calling device might comprise one or more first processors and a first computer readable medium in communication with the one or more first processors. The first computer readable medium might have encoded thereon a first set of instructions executable by the one or more first processors to cause the first video calling device to perform one or more operations. The first set of instructions might comprise instructions for receiving a video call from a caller at a second video calling device instructions for determining that the user is unable to answer the video call instructions for recording a videomail message from the video call based at least in part on a determination that the user is unable to answer the video call and instructions for uploading the videomail message.

The server computer might comprise one or more second processors and a second computer readable medium in communication with the one or more second processors. The second computer readable medium might have encoded thereon a second set of instructions executable by the one or more second processors to cause the server computer to perform one or more operations. The second set of instructions might comprise instructions to receive the uploaded videomail message.

According to some embodiments the second set of instructions might further comprise instructions to post process the videomail message. In some cases the second set of instructions might further comprise instructions to provide a notification to a callee regarding the videomail message.

Various modifications and additions can be made to the embodiments discussed without departing from the scope of the invention. For example while the embodiments described above refer to particular features the scope of this invention also includes embodiments having different combination of features and embodiments that do not include all of the above described features.

While various aspects and features of certain embodiments have been summarized above the following detailed description illustrates a few exemplary embodiments in further detail to enable one of skill in the art to practice such embodiments. The described examples are provided for illustrative purposes and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the described embodiments. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art however that other embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without some of these specific details. In other instances certain structures and devices are shown in block diagram form. Several embodiments are described herein and while various features are ascribed to different embodiments it should be appreciated that the features described with respect to one embodiment may be incorporated with other embodiments as well. By the same token however no single feature or features of any described embodiment should be considered essential to every embodiment of the invention as other embodiments of the invention may omit such features.

Unless otherwise indicated all numbers used herein to express quantities dimensions and so forth used should be understood as being modified in all instances by the term about. In this application the use of the singular includes the plural unless specifically stated otherwise and use of the terms and and or means and or unless otherwise indicated. Moreover the use of the term including as well as other forms such as includes and included should be considered non exclusive. Also terms such as element or component encompass both elements and components comprising one unit and elements and components that comprise more than one unit unless specifically stated otherwise.

Presence Detection Devices PDDs provided by various embodiments can contain or communicate with inter alia cameras microphones and or other sensors including without limitation infrared IR sensors . These sensors in conjunction with the internal processing capability of the device can allow the device to detect when a person is in the room. Additionally through means such as facial recognition and voice detection or the like the devices also can automatically recognize who is in the room. More specifically such devices can detect the presence of a particular individual. In some aspects Image Capture Devices ICDs might contain or communicate with inter alia video capture devices for capturing video mail and or video mail data. In some cases ICDs might also contain or communicate with inter alia microphones and or other sensors including without limitation infrared IR sensors . According to some embodiments some ICDs might have similar functionality as PDDs.

In various embodiments presence detection can be local and or cloud based. In the case of local presence detection the PDD itself might keep a list of all user profiles and will attempt to match an individual against its local list of all users. In cloud based detection the functionality of user detection can be moved into servers in the cloud. A cloud based approach allows detection of a user s presence to be mobile among various devices whether or not owned by and or associated with the user . That same user can be detected on their device or on any other device that has the same capability and that is tied into the same cloud infrastructure.

The ability to automatically detect the presence of an individual on any device presents a powerful new paradigm for many applications including automation customization content delivery gaming video calling and others. Advantageously in some embodiments a user s content services games profiles videomail e mail and or preferences etc. can follow that user from device to device including devices that are not owned by or previously associated with the individual as described in detail in the 279 application already incorporated herein . Alternatively or in addition presence detection functionality can also allow for mobile presence detection that enables remote access and control of ICDs over a network following automatic identification and authentication of the user by any device e.g. PDD ICD or other device so long as such device has authentication functionality that is or can be tied to the access and control of the ICDs regardless of whether or not such device is owned or associated with the user. In other words the ability to remotely access and control one s ICDs over a network can follow the user wherever he or she goes in a similar manner to the user s content and profiles following the user as described in the 279 application. Such remote control of ICDs as well as post processing of video and or image data captured by the ICDs is described in detail in the 263 application which is already incorporated by reference herein .

Various sensors on a PDD and or a video calling device can be used for user detection. Facial recognition can be used to identify a particular individual s facial characteristics and or voice detection can be used to uniquely identify a person. Additionally PDDs and or ICDs may also have local data storage. This local data storage can be used to store a database of user profiles. The user profiles can contain the various mechanisms that can be used to identify a person including username and password facial characteristics voice characteristics etc. When sensors detect the facial features or capture the voice of a particular individual that captured presence information can be compared against the characteristics of the users on the local storage. If a match is found then the individual has been successfully identified by the device. As used herein the term presence information can be any data or information that can be used to determine the presence of a user and or to identify and or authenticate such a user. As such presence information can include raw image video or audio data analyzed data e.g. video or image data to which preliminary facial recognition procedures such as feature extraction have been employed as well as verification of audio self identification or verification of audio challenge response information the results of such analysis and even the end result of the detection process i.e. a notification that a user is present and or an identification of the user. 

Detection of a user s presence can also be detected via proximity of a PDD and or a video calling device to another device. For example if a user s mobile phone tablet or PC is near the PDD and or the ICD that person is automatically detected. In some instances a unique device identifier for each of a user s device might have previously been associated with the user s profile in a cloud database or the like i.e. making the user s devices known devices and detection of such unique device identifiers might serve as a basis for identifying the user or might streamline the identification process by verifying whether the person with the device owned by or associated with the known device is the user or simply someone in possession of the device s whether lawful or unlawful . Such verification might comprise one or more of facial recognition voice recognition audio challenge response verification biometric analysis or the like. In some cases audio challenge response verification might include analysis of sub vocal responses from the person challenged to prevent undesired casual overhearing of audio passwords audio keyphrases or the like. In some instances biometric analysis might include analysis of any suitable biometric aside from facial and voice recognition selected from a group consisting of fingerprint iris pupil height unique scar s other unique physical characteristics and or any combination of these biometrics. To capture biometric information such as fingerprints iris pupil height scar or other unique physical characteristics which might be image based biometrics which might be captured by a high resolution video capture device of the PDD and or the ICD the PDD and or the ICD might prompt the person being identified to position himself or herself so that his or her fingerprints iris pupil full body scar or other unique physical characteristics respectively are appropriately facing the video capture device of the PDD and or the ICD.

In some embodiments with detection of known devices and with automatic detection identification processes being enabled it may be possible for the system to identify persons not normally associated with a known device being in possession of the known device. In such a case the system might notify the original user via e mail or other forms of communication indicated in the user s profile or the like of the situation. In some instances the user might indicate that the unknown person does have authority or permission to use or be in possession of the user s device. In other cases where the user indicates that the user does not have authority or permission to use the device the user may be given options to proceed including without limitation options to lock data options to lock device functions options to activate location tracking including without limitation global positioning system GPS global navigation satellite system GNSS etc. of the device in case the system loses track of the device e.g. in the case the device moves outside the range of the system s sensor detection communications systems options to contact the unknown person options to activate speakers to emit sirens options to activate displays or lights e.g. light emitting diodes LEDs organic LEDs OLEDs liquid crystal displays LCDs etc. and or options to notify authorities e.g. police or other law enforcement personnel of the situation and or the location of the device e.g. GPS coordinates or the like etc.

Additionally and or alternatively proximity detection can be done using GNSS location tracking functionality which can be found in many electronic devices and authenticating the user when the secondary device is within a predefined distance of the PDD and or ICD. Proximity detection can also be done wirelessly via Bluetooth or WiFi. With respect to Bluetooth if the secondary device pairs with the PDD and or the ICD the user can be considered detected. With respect to WiFi one approach could be to see if the secondary device associates with the same WiFi access point that the PDD and or the ICD is connected to. Another approach to proximity detection is the use of near field communications NFC commonly found in many electronic devices. When the secondary device is within range of the PDD and or ICD a NFC detector can be used to determine that the user is in the room. From these examples a skilled reader should appreciate that many different techniques can be used to detect presence based on device proximity.

In some embodiments detection of an individual can be fully automatic and might in some instances require no user interaction. For example the system can characterize an individual s facial features and or unique physical characteristics or other biometrics automatically detect the presence of a secondary device characterize an individual s voice print automatically etc. Several detection methods can be used in combination to reduce errors in the detection process. For example if the system detects a person in the room and first identifies that person s facial features it can then prompt them for voice e.g. Bob is that you . Once the user s voice is captured that audio sample can be compared against the stored voice characteristics for that user to reduce false detection. Another approach for the second step may be to prompt the user to speak a PIN or password to be compared against what is stored in the user profile. Using this approach the characteristics of the speech e.g. user s voice cadence syntax diction and the content of the speech e.g. a PIN or password can be jointly used to reduce false detections. To prevent eavesdropping of passwords or PINS the audio capture device might be configured to capture subvocalizations of the passwords or PINS for analysis. Alternatively and or additionally the system can prompt the user to position his or her body so as to allow the video capture device to face one or more of the user s fingers e.g. for fingerprint analysis the user s eyes e.g. for iris and or pupil analysis the user s full body e.g. for height analysis portions of the user s body e.g. for analysis of scars or other unique physical characteristics or the like etc.

In some embodiments physical geography can be used as a metric in detection to reduce the possibility of errors. For example if a user is known to use the system in Dallas Tex. and then is detected in Madrid Spain the system can weigh detection in Spain lower than detection in Dallas. Additionally if the user is detected in Spain a secondary authentication method may optionally be invoked to reduce false detection. According to some embodiments in the case that the system has access to profile or other personal information of the user such as communications calendar items contacts list travel itinerary information or the like that might indicate that the user might be visiting a friend or relative in Spain having a similar PDD and or ICD linked to a common network or cloud server the system might determine that the user is or will be in Spain. In such a case the user s profiles media content or the like or access thereto might be sent to the friend s or relative s device in Spain or to a local data center or the like to allow the user to access the user s own content or profiles on the friend s or relative s device during the visit in particular embodiments the user s profiles might include access and control information for remotely accessing and controlling the user s ICDs over a network while the user s content might include image data and or video data captured by the user s ICDs either in raw or processed form . After the scheduled visit it may be determined using any combination of the user s personal information the user s devices including the user s PDD and or ICD mobile devices etc. and or the friend s or relative s device whether the user has left the friend s or relative s location in this example Spain . If so determined the content and profiles or access thereto as the case may be might be removed from the friend s or relative s device and or from the data center or the like that is local to said device .

In particular embodiments a PDD and or a video calling device can also be connected to a network such as the Internet. In such a scenario the database of user profiles including identifiable facial and or voice characteristics as well as other identifying information e.g. passwords identifying information for other devices owned by the user etc. can be stored on servers located in the cloud i.e. on the network or in a distributed computing system available over the network. In some cases the distributed computing system might comprise a plurality of PDDs and or a plurality of ICDs in communication with each other either directly or indirectly over the network. The distributed computing system in some instances might comprise one or more central cloud servers linking the plurality of PDDs and or the plurality of ICDs and controlling the distribution and redundant storage of media content access to content user profiles user data and or the like. When an individual s facial features are detected by a PDD and or a video calling device those features and or an image captured by the PDD and or the ICD can be sent to a server on the network. The server then can compare the identifiable facial features against the database of user profiles. If a match is found then the server might inform the device of the identity of the user and or might send a user profile for the user to the device.

User profiles including facial characteristics can be stored both locally on the device and on a server located in the cloud. When using both device based and cloud based databases user identification can be performed by first checking the local database to see if there is a match and if there is no local match then checking the cloud based database. The advantage of this approach is that it is faster for user identification in the case where the user profile is contained in the local database. In some embodiments the database on the device can be configured to stay synchronized with the database in the cloud. For example if a change is made to a user profile on the device that change can be sent to the server and reflected on the database in the cloud. Similarly if a change is made to the user profile in the cloud based database that change can be reflected on the device database.

Matching presence information or identifying information with an individual having a user profile can be a form of authentication in some embodiments. User profiles can also contain information necessary for many authentication mechanisms. Such information may include challenge response pairs such as username and password combinations security question pass phrase combinations or the like facial recognition profiles voice recognition profiles and or other biometric information such as fingerprints etc. An individual may be authenticated using any combination of such techniques.

In some cases the system can also determine when a user is no longer present. Merely by way of example a PDD and or a video calling device might continually or periodically monitor for the user s presence. For instance in the case of facial recognition the device can continually check to detect whether a captured image includes the user s face. With voice recognition after a period of inactivity the device might prompt the user if they are there e.g. Bob are you still there .

According to some embodiments user profiles can work across heterogeneous networks. Not all user devices need to be the same. Some user devices might be PDDs and or ICDs. Other user devices might be computers tablets mobile phones etc. Each can use any appropriate method based on device capabilities to determine the presence of identify and or authenticate the user of the device with a user profile.

In an aspect this automated presence detection can be used to provide user information e.g. content or services to an identified user. With a PDD and or a video calling device when a user enters the room and the camera sensors detect that user s facial features or other biometric features and authenticates the individual the content associated with that user profile including without limitation profile information for handling video mail profile information for remotely accessing recorded video mail or video mail data and or the like can automatically become available to that individual. Additionally with the cloud based authentication approach described herein that user s content and or profiles can become available on any device. More specifically if a user is identified by another PDD and or video calling device then his or her content e.g. video mail or video mail data captured by the user s video calling device s or a video calling device s associated with another user either in raw or processed form and or the like becomes available to him or her even if the PDD and or video calling device that he or she is in front of is not the user s own device. This functionality allows a new paradigm in which the user s content and or profiles follow the user automatically. Similarly when upgrading PDDs and or video calling devices detection identification and authentication of the user on the new device can allow automatic and easy porting of the user s content and or profiles to the new device allowing for an ultimate type of plug and play functionality especially if the profiles include information on configurations and settings of the user devices and interconnections with other devices .

PDDs and or video calling devices also are capable of handling transmitting and or distributing image captured content which can include but is not limited to video mail and or video mail data captured or recorded by the video calling devices. In some cases the video mail and or video mail data might be raw data while in other cases they might be post processed data. Video mail and or video mail data can be stored on servers in the cloud on PDDs video calling devices in the cloud and or locally on a particular user device. When accessing video mail and or video mail data from another device the first PDD and or video calling device that has the video mail and or video mail data stored thereon needs to serve the video mail and or video mail data to the new device that the user is using. In order to do this the new PDD and or video calling device might need to get a list of video mail and or video mail data that is stored on the first PDD and or video calling device. This can in some embodiments be facilitated via a server that is in the cloud that all PDDs and or video calling devices are always or mostly connected to. The server can communicate with all PDDs and or video calling devices and help send messages between PDDs and or video calling devices. When a user is authenticated with a new PDD and or video calling device the new device can request the list of video mail and or video mail data from the first device. If the user requests video mail and or video mail data from the new device then the first PDD and or video calling device or the other user device can serve the video mail and or video mail data to the new device. This can be done either directly in a peer to peer fashion or can be facilitated by the server. In some embodiments this communication can be accomplished by using protocols such as XMPP SIP TCP IP RTP UDP etc.

As discussed above identification and authentication of a user by a PDD whether or not associated with or owned by the user can provide the user with remote access and control of the user s video calling device s over a network e.g. by porting the user s profiles associated with remote access and control of the user s video calling device s and or the like to the current PDD in front of which the user is located . This functionality allows the user to remotely access video mail and or video mail data to remotely access and modify settings for recording post processing and accessing video mail and or video mail data and to remotely record a video or audio message prompting a missed video caller to leave a video mail message.

Some embodiments employ a master account for access to a video calling device. In an aspect a master account can be created on a per user basis. This master account might serve as the top level identifier for a particular user. The master account is used to manage control and monitor a user s camera s . Additionally the master account can be used to control any account or device level services that are available.

For example an email account and password can be used as a master account to manage a user s settings for handling recording post processing and or accessing video mail and or video mail data.

For proper management and control of a video calling device some embodiments provide the ability to reliably associate a video calling device with a master account i.e. assign the video calling device to the master account . When a video calling device is associated with an account then it can be managed and controlled from within the master account. Association ensures that a video calling device is being controlled by the appropriate user and not an unauthorized user.

A video calling device may be associated with a particular master account at the time of the device setup. During device setup the user is prompted to enter a master account and password. When doing so a secure communications channel may be opened up between video calling device and servers. Then a unique and difficult to guess key can be sent from the device to the server. Servers that have a master list of all keys then can associate that particular device via its serial number to a particular master account. A feature of this approach is that a user only needs to enter a password at the time of device setup. The user never needs to enter a password again and in fact passwords do not need to be stored on the device at all making them very secure.

Once a device has been associated with a master account it may be managed from the master account via an interface such as a web interface in accordance with some embodiments. The communication link between the device and server may in some cases be always encrypted and authenticated. This ensures that messages between device and server are secure and ensures that the device knows it is communicating with the server on behalf of the appropriate master account. Once the secure and authenticated link is established devices can connect to the server and are able to send and receive commands.

The device and server can have a common set of command codes and responses. Servers can send commands down to the camera s to enact specific behavior. For example the server can send remote configuration commands. These commands can be items such as changing the device address changing the nickname that is associated with the device changing the avatar image associated with the device. In addition to configuration the commands can be used to enact specific behavior on the device such as running network tests or taking a live image s from the video calling device. New commands and features can be added by extending the set of command codes on the device and server.

Certain embodiments provide tools to address the problem of a caller being able to leave a video mail for someone the caller is calling i.e. a callee when the callee is not able to take the video call. Some such embodiments are interoperable and do not require the caller i.e. the person leaving the video mail to have the same video calling device as the callee i.e. the person for whom the message is left . In fact any device or software application that interoperates with a video calling device in accordance with certain embodiments i.e. can engage in a video call with such a device is able to leave video mails for a callee who uses that device. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 581 185 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 144 182 the 182 patent the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes discloses some exemplary video calling devices also referred to in the 182 patent as video communication devices or VCDs that can be used with embodiments disclosed herein. The PDD and or ICD described above can also be used as a video calling device in accordance with various embodiments. The 263 application already incorporated by reference discloses systems for capturing and processing video including remote control over a video or image capture device. Embodiments disclosed herein can be employed in the environment disclosed in the 263 application and or in conjunction with the techniques described in the 263 application and or such embodiments can be employed and or be used in conjunction with video calling devices described in the 182 patent.

Merely by way of example the 263 application describes networked systems including cloud based systems for accessing a video calling device or other recording device and or for storing and or processing images video obtained by such a device. Such systems can be employed to provide the video mail services described herein.

Some embodiments implement video mail features by way of an actual video call. From a technical perspective the calling device enters an actual video call with the callee s video calling device just as it would if the callee answered the video call. This feature can allow the callee s video calling device to record video mail not just from another similar device but from any device and or software application which might be executed on tablets mobile phones personal computers PCs and or other user devices etc. that can engage in a video call with the video calling device which can be implemented by the image capture device described in the 263 application and or the video communication devices disclosed in the 182 patent .

Once a videomail is left the callee s video calling device might upload the components of the videomail to the cloud e.g. the cloud environment described in the 263 application . Once in the cloud the audio and video can be post processed into any desired format including as one specific example a format that is viewable by a web browser . Once the post processing is complete the owner of the video calling device that received the voicemail i.e. the user or callee can be notified of the new videomail.

A number of different notifications can be provided. Merely by way of example a notification might take the form of an e mail that is automatically generated and sent to the user s or callee s e mail address e.g. as registered with the video calling provider . The e mail might contain a link to the videomail itself. In this manner the videomail can be viewed on any device that is capable of accessing the link. This means that the videomail can be viewed on any device that is capable of viewing the video itself e.g. PC tablet device smartphone etc. . Additionally the provider can store a user s videomails in the cloud and presents the list of videomails a user has using the provider s web portal interface. A user can log into the portal using a web browser and see all the videomails that have been left for him or her. Videomails can also be deleted as well.

In an exemplary but non limiting embodiment the following workflow can be used to implement videomail 

 1 The video calling device is configured for videomails. In an aspect the device can be configured to optionally answer videomails i.e. such functionality can be turned on or off . Other behavior that can be configured is the amount of time to wait before triggering the device to record a videomail. Such configuration can be established set or modified with the user interface of the device itself with the web portal interface and or using any other suitable technique.

 3 If the video calling device is configured to record video mails then at the appropriate time it will automatically answer the video call. From a technical perspective the calling device and the video calling device are now in a video call.

 4 Rather than sending video and audio from its camera and microphone as it would in a normal video call the video calling device will send pre recorded graphics and audio. The video calling device can start by sending a graphic that indicates that the receiving party is not available and that the caller may leave a videomail. For example language can include The person you called is not available. At the tone please leave a videomail. From an audio perspective a pre recorded message with similar language can be sent. Once this message is sent then an audible tone might be sent to the calling party. This tone can be used to indicate to the caller that he or she may begin recording a videomail. Additionally after the tone the video calling device transmits a graphic with language such as Currently recording videomail to visually indicate to the caller that his or her message is being recorded.

 5 Once the calling party begins transmitting audio and video the video calling device begins recording the audio and video streams to the local disk. To avoid visible artifacts in the recorded videomail the video calling device begins recording video when an Instantaneous Decoder Refresh IDR video frame is received. If one is not received video calling device requests one from the caller. In fact the audible tone in step 4 is not played until an IDR frame is received. This ensures that the caller does not begin speaking until artifact free video can be recorded.

 6 In typical video calls audio and video are transmitted as independent streams which are decoded and synchronized by the receiving device. Synchronization must also be preserved on the playout device which may not be a video calling device but might be a PC a smartphone a tablet and or the like. There are many ways to perform decoding and or synchronization but one possible approach is as follows 

 7 Audio and video are recorded for a pre determined amount of time e.g. 2 minutes or until the local disk is full.

 8 The audio video and timecode files are uploaded to the cloud for post processing. Additionally the sampling rate of the audio is also passed to the cloud. The purpose of the post processing is to convert these elements into a video file that can be played on any device including but not limited to PC tablet mobile phone and or the like .

 9 The raw elements are post processed in the cloud. This may be performed to avoid heavy processing performed by the video calling device itself. The post processing algorithms might perform some or all of the following operations 

 10 Once the video has been generated an e mail can be sent to the owner of the called video calling device. The e mail might contain a link e.g. a URL to the video that is live. This allows the video calling device owner to view the videomail wherever he or she is. The device owner does not need to be near his or her device. A sample e mail that is generated is shown in . Alternatively or additionally the e mail might contain an attachment comprising the video and or might have the video embedded in the e mail.

 11 Additionally the videomail may be presented to the users in their video calling provider s web portal interface. The web interface which displays who the videomail is from and shows the sender s picture might show the length of the videomail as well. The web interface might also show all videomails that the user has received and might allow the user to delete the videomails as well. An example of a web interface is shown e.g. in .

A video calling device or a PDD can be any device that is capable of communicating with a control server over a network and can provide any of a variety of types of video communication functionality. Merely by way of example in some aspects a video calling device or a PDD can be capable of providing pass through video audio to a display device and or audio playback device from another source such as a local content source and or overlaying such video audio with additional content generated or received by the video calling device or the PDD . In other aspects a video calling device or a PDD can comprise one or more sensors e.g. digital still cameras video cameras webcams security cameras microphones infrared sensors touch sensors and or the like and or can be capable using data acquired by such sensors of sensing the presence of a user identifying a user and or receiving user input from a user further a video calling device or a PDD can be capable of performing some or all of the other functions described herein and or in the Related Applications. Hence in various embodiments a video calling device or a PDD can be embodied by a video calling device such as any of the VCDs described in the 182 patent a video game console a streaming media player to name a few non limiting examples.

In one aspect of certain embodiments as described more fully with respect to below a video calling device or a PDD can be placed functionally inline between a local content source and a display device. A local content source can be any device that provides an audio or video stream to a display device and thus can include without limitation a cable or satellite set top box STB an Internet Protocol television IPTV STB devices that generate video and or audio and or acquire video and or audio from other sources such as the Internet and provide that video audio to a display device hence a local content source can include devices such as a video game console a Roku streaming media player an AppleTV and or the like. When situated functionally inline between a local content source and a display device the video calling device or the PDD can receive an audiovisual stream output from the local content source modify that audiovisual stream in accordance with the methods described herein in the 182 patent and or in the 279 application and provide the perhaps modified audiovisual stream as input to the display device. It should be noted however that in some cases the functionality of a local content source can be incorporated within a video calling device or a PDD and or the functionality of a video calling device or a PDD can be incorporated within a local content source further it should be appreciated that a video calling device or a PDD which might or might not include local content source functionality can be disposed inline with one or more other local content sources or one or more other video calling devices PDDs. Hence for example a video calling device or a PDD with some local content source functionality such as a video game console might be disposed inline between one or more other local content sources or one or more other video calling devices PDDs such as a cable STB satellite STB IPTV STB and or a streaming media player and a display device.

In an aspect of some embodiments the system can include a software client that can be installed on a computing device e.g. a laptop computer wireless phone tablet computer etc. that has a built in camera and or has a camera attached e.g. a USB webcam . This client can act as an interface to allow remote control of the built in and or attached camera on the computing device. In some embodiments the computing device might have a built in microphone s and or has a microphone s attached e.g. a table top microphone a wall mounted microphone and or a microphone removably mountable on a television on the video calling device on the PDD and or on some other suitable user device or the like . The software client can alternatively and or additionally act as an interface to allow remote control of the built in and or attached microphone on the computing device. In some cases the camera and or microphone can be automatically or autonomously controlled to obtain optimal video and or audio input. Remote control of the video calling device and or PDD is described in detail in the 263 application already incorporated herein .

The system can further include a control server which can have any suitable hardware configuration and an example of one such configuration is described below in relation to . In one aspect the control server is a computer that is capable of receiving user input via a user interface and or performing operations for utilizing the video calling device s and or the PDD s to receive video calls to determine that a user or callee is unavailable to receive a video call to prompt a caller to leave a videomail message to record the videomail message to upload the videomail message for post processing to notify the user or callee about the videomail message to enable the user or callee to remotely access the user s master account user preferences and or the videomail message and or the like for example as described in further detail below. Merely by way of example the control server can detect user presence identify authenticate users and or enable the user to remotely access the user s master account user preferences the videomail message and or the like. In other cases the control server can receive and or store user input and or user preferences that can specify whether and how presence information should be used whether and how the user s video calling device s and or PDD s may be used in the distributed infrastructure whether and how the user s content and profiles should be handled under certain situations and or the like.

For example preferences might specify which account information content profile information personal communications e.g. videomail etc. and or the like should be delivered to a user when present at a device not owned by the user whether presence information should be collected for that user at all and or where such information should be collected for example a user might specify that his presence should only be monitored in selected locations or from selected devices and the control server might remove that user s profile from the search universe when provided with presence information from a device not at the selected location or from a device other than one of the selected devices. More generally the user preference can include any types of parameters related to collecting presence information using presence information and or serving content information including without limitation user account information user content user profile information user s personal communications e.g. videomail etc. and or the . These preferences might be stored in a user profile at the control server which might also include other user specific information such as the user s normal location s identifying information such as MAC address etc. of other user devices owned by or associated with the user lists of or links to content owned by the user lists of or links to videomail messages addressed to the user and or the like.

In some embodiments user preferences might specify how the user would like his or her user devices to participate or not in a distributed infrastructure arrangement. For instance the user preferences might include without limitation preferences indicating whether or not to allow a user device owned by the user to be used for distributed infrastructure preferences indicating what type of software applications customer data and or media content of other user device users and or subscribers of a cloud service are permitted to be hosted on a user device owned by the user and or preferences indicating amount of resources of a user device to dedicate to the distributed infrastructure etc. In some embodiments in addition to indicating how a user s user device may be used in distributed infrastructure implementation user preferences might allow a user to indicate how the user s own applications data and or media content may be hosted on other users user devices. For example the user might be given the option to encrypt any and or all personal data any and or all personal applications any and or all files or lists indicating which media content are associated with the user and or any and or all files or lists pertaining to videomail messages that are addressed to the user including the videomail messages themselves . Common media content which might include popular media content or any other media content may remain unencrypted for common usage by any number of users on any number of user devices subject only to any subscription rental or purchase restrictions on the particular media content as associated with any user and or any user device. On the other hand the user s personal communications including e.g. videomail messages and or the like may be encrypted.

In some examples the user might indicate that her user device may be used for distributed processing but not distributed cloud based data storage or vice versa. Alternatively the user might indicate that her user device may be used for both distributed processing and distributed cloud based data storage. In some embodiments the user might allow the hosting on his or her user device of at least portions of software applications that are published by known and reputable software companies or published by companies on behalf of governmental agencies or the like while blocking hosting of software applications associated with marketing spam data mining and or potential copyright violations etc. These and other preferences related to distributed infrastructure functionality are described in greater detail in the 360 application which is already incorporated herein by reference .

With respect to video mail capture processing and distribution functionality user preferences might include without limitation preferences indicating one or more video calling devices to associate with a master account preferences indicating under what conditions the one or more video calling device s should prompt callers to leave videomail messages preferences indicating whether presence detection functionality as described in detail in the 279 application should or should not be enabled in a particular one s of the one or more video calling device s preferences associated with recording notifying and distributing videomail messages preferences indicating whether or not and under what conditions videomail messages should be post processed and how preferences indicating how the user may access the user s master account user profiles user preferences videomail messages and or the like.

The control server can provide a user interface which can be used by users of the video calling devices and or the PDDs and or the like . The control server might also provide machine to machine interfaces such as application programming interfaces APIs data exchange protocols and the like which can allow for automated communications with the video calling devices and or the PDDs etc. In one aspect the control server might be in communication with a web server and or might incorporate the web server which can provide the user interface e.g. over the network to a user computer not shown in and or a machine to machine interface. In another aspect the control server might provide such interfaces directly without need for a web server . Under either configuration the control server provides the user interface as that phrase is used in this document. In some cases some or all of the functionality of the control server might be implemented by the video calling device and or the PDD itself.

In an aspect the user interface allows users to interact with the control server and by extension the video calling devices and or the PDDs . A variety of user interfaces may be provided in accordance with various embodiments including without limitation graphical user interfaces that display for a user display fields on display screens for providing information to the user and or receiving user input from a user. Example graphical user interfaces are shown in as described below.

Merely by way of example in some embodiments the control server may be configured to communicate with a user computer not shown in via a dedicated application running on the user computer in this situation the user interface might be displayed by the user computer based on data and or instructions provided by the control server . In this situation providing the user interface might comprise providing instructions and or data to cause the user computer to display the user interface. In other embodiments the user interface may be provided from a web site e.g. by providing a set of one or more web pages which might be displayed in a web browser running on the user computer and or might be served by the web server . As noted above in various embodiments the control system might comprise the web server and or be in communication with the web server such that the control server provides data to the web server to be incorporated in web pages served by the web server for reception and or display by a browser at the user computer.

The network specific examples of which are described below with regard to can be any network wired or wireless that is capable of providing communication between the control server and the video calling devices and or the PDDs and or of providing communication between the control server and or the web server and a user computer. In a specific embodiment the network can comprise the Internet and or any Internet service provider ISP access networks that provide Internet access to the control server the user computer and or the video calling devices and or the PDDs .

In some embodiments the system can include a cloud storage system which can be used as described in further detail below to store advertisements presence information images video and or videomail messages that are captured and uploaded by the video calling devices and or the PDDs and or the like. In some cases the cloud storage system might be a proprietary system operated by an operator of the control server . In other cases the cloud storage system might be operated by a third party provider such as one of the many providers of commercially available cloud services. In yet a further embodiment the cloud storage system might be implemented by using resources e.g. compute memory storage network etc. shared by a plurality of video calling devices and or by a plurality of PDDs that are distributed among various users of the system. Merely by way of example as described in further detail below and in the 360 application already incorporated by reference herein a plurality of user video calling devices and or PDDs might each have some dedicated resources such as a storage partition which are dedicated for use by the system and or some ad hoc resources such as network bandwidth memory compute resources etc. that are available to the system when not in use by a user. Such resources can be used as cloud storage and or can be used to provide a distributed cloud like platform on which a control server can run as a virtual machine cloud container and or the like.

According to some embodiments video calling device might comprise a first video input interface to receive first video input from a first local content source which in some embodiments can include a STB and or the like and a first audio input interface to receive first audio input from the first local content source. Video calling device might further comprise a first video output interface to provide first video output to a first video display device and a first audio output interface to provide first audio output to a first audio receiver. In some cases the first video display device and the first audio receiver might be embodied in the same device e.g. a TV with built in speaker system or the like . With the input and output interfaces video calling device might provide pass through capability for video and or audio between the first local content source and the first display device. In some instances high definition multimedia interface HDMI cables or other suitable HD signal cables may be used to provide the interconnections for the pass through. Video calling device may in some cases comprise a first video capture device to capture at least one of first image data or first video data and a first audio capture device to capture first audio data. Video calling device may also comprise a first network interface at least one first processor and a first storage medium in communication with the at least one first processor.

In some aspects a plurality of video calling devices might be communicatively coupled together in a network e.g. network each video calling device being located in one of a plurality of customer premises. For implementing distributed infrastructure for cloud computing cloud based application hosting and or cloud based data storage a computer might establish one or more video calling devices of the plurality of video calling devices as distributed infrastructure elements and might provide at least one of one or more software applications customer data and or media content to the one or more video calling devices for hosting on the one or more video calling devices . These and other functionalities of the video calling devices related to distributed infrastructure are described in greater detail in the 360 application already incorporated by reference herein .

Merely by way of example in some aspects a user can remotely access one or more video calling devices and or remotely access at least one of the user s master account the user s user preference the user s profiles any videomail messages addressed to the user and or the like over a network. For example in a web based implementation a user could log into the user s master account by accessing a website hosted on a web server e.g. web server which might be hosted on a cloud server hosted on distributed PDDs hosted on distributed video calling devices and or the like and entering commands into a user interface e.g. user interface associated with remotely accessing the user s video calling device s and or associated with remotely accessing at least one of the user s master account the user s user preference the user s profiles any videomail messages addressed to the user and or the like. In some instances the user might access and interact with the user interface over the network e.g. network by using a user computer selected from a group consisting of a laptop computer a desktop computer a tablet computer a smart phone a mobile phone a portable computing device and or the like. In an application based or app based implementation the user might interact with a software application or app running on the user s user device which might include without limitation a laptop computer a desktop computer a tablet computer a smart phone a mobile phone a portable computing device and or the like. The app might include another user interface similar to the web based user interface that might allow for access of the user s video calling device s or any paired video calling device s over the network e.g. network and or that might allow for access to at least one of the user s master account the user s user preference the user s profiles any videomail messages addressed to the user and or the like.

In some embodiments access of one or more video calling device s and or access to at least one of the user s master account the user s user preference the user s profiles any videomail messages addressed to the user and or the like may be permitted in response to identification and or authentication of the user by a PDD PDD as described in detail herein and in the 279 application. In some embodiments a PDD might comprise a second video input interface to receive second video input from a second local content source which in some embodiments might include a STB and or the like and a second audio input interface to receive second audio input from the second local content source. PDD might further comprise a second video output interface to provide second video output to a second video display device and a second audio output interface to provide second audio output to a second audio receiver. In some cases as with video calling device above the second video display device and the second audio receiver might be embodied in the same device e.g. a TV with built in speaker system or the like . With the input and output interfaces PDD might provide pass through capability for video and or audio between the second local content source and the second display device. In some instances high definition multimedia interface HDMI cables or other suitable HD signal cables may be used to provide the interconnections for the pass through. PDD may in some cases comprise a second video capture device to capture at least one of second image data or second video data and a second audio capture device to capture second audio data. PDD might also comprise a second network interface at least one second processor and a second storage medium in communication with the at least one second processor. Similar to the video calling devices a plurality of PDDs may be communicatively coupled together in a network e.g. network as distributed infrastructure elements for implementing distributed infrastructure for cloud computing cloud based application hosting and or cloud based data storage.

Once a user has been automatically identified and or authenticated by a user device having identification and or authentication functionality e.g. by a PDD as described herein or as described in the 279 application regardless of whether or not the user is associated with or owns such user device the user may be provided with access to the video calling device s over the network and or remote access to at least one of the user s master account the user s user preference the user s profiles any videomail messages addressed to the user and or the like. Such access as discussed above may be in the form of web based user interfaces app based user interfaces or other suitable user interfaces. Such user interfaces might be customized automatically based on the user preferences i.e. based on the video mail capture processing and distribution user preferences discussed above . In some instances the user interfaces might be configured to allow addition modification and or deletion of such user preferences. According to some embodiments the user interfaces might provide the user with options for uploading locally storing cloud storing distributing sharing processing and or otherwise handling recorded videomail messages from the video calling device s . Some of these options may be preselected or established as default settings in the user preferences. In some cases processing of videomail messages from the video calling device s might include without limitation formatting sharpening and or otherwise manipulating the videomail messages.

In some cases the user device e.g. PDD might be configured to determine whether the user is no longer present. Based on such a determination access to the video calling device s over the network as well as access to at least one if not all of the user s master account the user s user preference the user s profiles any videomail messages addressed to the user whether in the raw or processed state and or the like may be blocked. Blocking such access may include automatically logging out of the web based or app based user interface or the like.

At block method might comprise receiving at a first video calling device associated with a user or callee a video call from a caller at a second video calling device. In some instances the first video calling device and the second video calling device might be made by different manufacturers and or might be of different models of calling device. Method might at block comprise determining that the user is unable to answer the video call. In some instances such a determination might be based at least in part on presence detection functionalities described herein that indicate the user is not present or near the first video calling device or based at least in part on presence detection functionalities described herein that indicate the user is in a conversation with someone else e.g. based on voice identification and or the like . In some embodiments such a determination might be based at least in part on current user settings or user status indicating e.g. that the user is busy away or otherwise not to be disturbed or the like .

Method might further comprise prompting the caller to leave a videomail message e.g. based at least in part on a determination that the user is unavailable to answer the video call block . In some instances the prompt might include a text voice and or video message pre recorded by the user prompting callers to leave videomail messages. At block method might comprise recording the videomail message from the video call. In some cases recording the videomail message from the video call might comprise first establishing a video call connection with the caller and subsequently recording the videomail message. In other instances recording the videomail message from the video call might comprise recording a video stream from the caller i.e. data packet stream or the like from the caller without first establishing a video call connection.

Method at block might comprise uploading over a network the videomail message to a server for post processing. In some cases uploading the videomail message might comprise uploading to a specified location on the network which might be specified by the user e.g. via the user interface and or might be specified by the system itself without user input . In some instances the specified location might be a cloud storage system such as that provided by Amazon Web Services and or the like. In an aspect of some embodiments the system can cause the video calling device s to upload the videomail message directly to the cloud environment without transmitting the videomail message to any intermediary server including the control server itself or any other device preventing bottlenecks in the upload process. Merely by way of example the control server might comprise a command including a uniform resource locator URL pointing to a location in the cloud environment to which the videomail message should be uploaded.

In a particular set of embodiments the system might segment the storage environment whether a cloud storage environment or otherwise into partitions e.g. directories etc. that are assigned to particular master accounts and or within such partitions subpartitions assigned to individual video calling devices assigned to those master accounts. Hence the method might comprise storing the videomail message in a location assigned to that master account and or video calling device s . In a particular set of embodiments the system might provide the master account with control over access to the uploaded videomail messages e.g. by allowing the authenticated user to specify whether a given file or set of files should be available only to the user to others specified by the user or to the public. In any case the system might assign a URL to the uploaded videomail message and or might provide that URL to the user e.g. via the user interface so that the user can access the videomail messages at a later time share the URL with others and or the like. The URL might be private e.g. accessible only to the master account or public e.g. accessible to anyone and in particular to whom the user gives the URL .

At block method might comprise performing post processing of the videomail message. In some embodiments post processing of the videomail message might comprise without limitation scaling video of the videomail message to a specified resolution mixing audio and video of the videomail message by reference to a timecode adding a visible watermark to the videomail message formatting the videomail message as a video viewable by a web browser and or the like. The specified resolution might include but is not limited to a resolution common to most if not all video playback devices high definition resolution and or the like . In some cases the specified resolution might be a default resolution or a resolution set by the user in the preferences for videomail or the like.

In some cases prompting the caller to leave the videomail message at block and recording the videomail message at block might each be performed by the first video calling device associated with the user while in other cases prompting the caller to leave the videomail message at block and recording the videomail message at block might each be performed by the second video calling device associated with the caller. According to some embodiments recording the videomail message at block might comprise recording a timecode file to a storage medium at one of the first video calling device or the second video calling device. The timecode file might indicate when each frame of video of the videomail message should be displayed. Recording the videomail message at block might further comprise synchronizing at the one of the first video calling device or the second video calling device audio and video from the videomail message based at least in part on the recorded timecode file. In some instances uploading the videomail message to the server at block might comprise uploading an audio file a video file and the timecode to the server.

At block method might comprise storing the post processed videomail message either locally i.e. on the one of the first video calling device or the second video calling device or remotely over the network i.e. at the server or at a database in communication with the server or the like . Method might further comprise providing a notification to the user regarding the videomail message block . In some instances the notification might comprise an e mail message with a link to a formatted video comprising the videomail message. In some cases a uniform resource locator URL addressing the formatted video might be created and the link might include the URL addressing the formatted video. According to some embodiments the e mail message might include an attachment comprising the videomail message. In some cases the e mail message might have the videomail message embedded in it.

Method at block might comprise receiving a request from the user to view the videomail message. In the case of the link to the videomail message the request might comprise the user clicking on or otherwise following the link. In the case of the attached or embedded videomail message the request might comprise the user interacting with the e mail client to open the attachment. At block in response to the request to view the videomail message method might comprise displaying the videomail message e.g. on a display device of a user computing device associated with the user and or the like . In some embodiments the videomail message might be displayed in a user interface such as a pop up window or in a main window or in a user interface described with respect to below. In the case of the link to the videomail message pop up window or the main window might be a window of a web browser. For example a web page that provides the user interface might include a frame window or applet that displays a videomail message uploaded from the video calling device s . In a particular aspect the server might obtain the videomail message from the location to which the video calling device s uploaded the videomail message and or the server and or web server might insert into the web page an anchor that references the videomail message in another location such as a location in a cloud storage system where the videomail message was uploaded . In the case of the attached or embedded videomail message the pop up window or the main window might be a window of the e mail client a window of a local video playback client and or the like. In some aspects the videomail message might be displayed within an e mail message particularly in the case of the embedded videomail message .

At block method might comprise receiving a request from the user to respond to a videomail message. Method at block might comprise enabling the user to respond to the videomail message by initiating a video call request to the original caller who left the videomail message by leaving a videomail message for the original caller e.g. in the case that the original caller is presently unavailable to answer the video call by initiating a voice or telephone call to the original caller by sending an e mail message to the original caller by sending a text message to the original caller and or the like.

Turning to the method might comprise registering a master account for a user block . In accordance with various embodiments registering a master account for a user can comprise a variety of operations. Merely by way of example registering a master account can comprise creating a database entry for a particular user and or assigning authentication credentials to that user these credentials can be used to access the master account as described in further detail below.

The method can also include assigning one or more video calling devices to the master account block . For instance the user might identify any video calling devices that the user owns or is otherwise associated with e.g. members of the user s family might be associated with the devices owned by the user and the system can assign those video calling devices to the user s master account. According to some embodiments the user s master account might include any suitable number of sub accounts. In one example each member of the user s family might be associated with a sub account linked with the master account. In some instances the user or some members of his or her family might have a work school sub account and a home sub account the former being associated with profiles and or media content appropriate for school or work while the latter being associated with all or all other profiles and or media content. In some embodiments the master account and the plurality of sub accounts might be organized as a hierarchy with the master account being at the top of the hierarchical structure having full access to profiles and media content of each sub account the sub accounts at the next level having access to profiles and or media content of only those sub accounts that the master account has given access to and the sub accounts at lower levels having limited access to profiles and or media content. For example the user s master account might have access to all profiles and or media content associated with the master account and the sub accounts. The user can provide his or her spouse with a sub account having the same access to profiles and or media content while providing limited access to profiles and or media content to each of the user s children s sub account s . In some instances the user and or the user s spouse might impose limits on access to profiles and or media content for each of their work sub accounts.

In some cases each video calling device might have an identifier such as a hardware identifier IP address nickname and or the like by which the system can address the video calling device and assigning a video calling device to the master account can comprise associating that identifier with the master account. When a video calling device is assigned to a master account the user of that account will be able to access configure and or control the video calling device through the control server for example as described in further detail below. In some cases the user might own a plurality of video calling devices and might wish to control all of the video calling devices from a single master account. In an aspect a user can identify such devices through a user interface to the control server.

In another aspect as described briefly above the assignment process can be simplified. When the user first configures a video calling device usually locally but perhaps over the network the user can provide credentials to the video calling device that associate the device with the master account. Thereafter the video calling device might be configured to communicate with the control server and identify itself using those credentials at that point the control server can assign the video calling device to the master account and no credentials need to be stored on the video calling device from that point forward other than perhaps the video calling device s own identifying information .

The method in the illustrated embodiment might further comprise providing a user interface to allow interaction between the user and the control server block . For example the user interface can be used to output information for a user e.g. by displaying the information on a display device printing information with a printer playing audio through a speaker etc. the user interface can also function to receive input from a user e.g. using standard input devices such as mice and other pointing devices motion capture devices touchpads and or touchscreens keyboards e.g. numeric and or alphabetic microphones etc. The procedures undertaken to provide a user interface therefore can vary depending on the nature of the implementation in some cases providing a user interface can comprise displaying the user interface on a display device in other cases however in which the user interface is displayed on a device remote from the computer system such as on a client computer wireless device etc. providing the user interface might comprise formatting data for transmission to such a device and or transmitting receiving and or interpreting data that is used to create the user interface on the remote device. Alternatively and or additionally the user interface on a client computer or any other appropriate user device might be a web interface in which the user interface is provided through one or more web pages that are served from a computer system and or a web server in communication with the computer system and are received and displayed by a web browser on the client computer or other capable user device . The web pages can display output from the computer system and receive input from the user e.g. by using Web based forms via hyperlinks electronic buttons etc. . A variety of techniques can be used to create these Web pages and or display receive information such as JavaScript Java applications or applets dynamic Hypertext Markup Language HTML and or Asynchronous JavaScript and XML or extensible markup language AJAX technologies to name but a few examples.

In many cases providing a user interface will comprise providing one or more display screens each of which includes one or more user interface elements. As used herein the term user interface element also described as a user interface mechanism or a user interface device means any text image or device that can be displayed on a display screen for providing information to a user and or for receiving user input. Some such elements are commonly referred to as widgets and can include without limitation text text boxes text fields tables and or grids menus toolbars charts hyperlinks buttons lists combo boxes checkboxes radio buttons and or the like. While any illustrated exemplary display screens might employ specific user interface elements appropriate for the type of information to be conveyed received by computer system in accordance with the described embodiments it should be appreciated that the choice of user interface elements for a particular purpose is typically implementation dependent and or discretionary. Hence the illustrated user interface elements employed by any display screens described herein should be considered exemplary in nature and the reader should appreciate that other user interface elements could be substituted within the scope of various embodiments.

As noted above in an aspect of certain embodiments the user interface provides interaction between a user and a computer system. Hence when this document describes procedures for displaying or otherwise providing information to a user or to receiving input from a user the user interface may be the vehicle for the exchange of such input output. Merely by way of example in a set of embodiments the user interface allows the user to log on to a master account access video calling devices via the control server access videomail and videomail settings preferences etc.

In an aspect of some embodiments the user logs onto his or her master account at the control server in order to access and or control video calling devices assigned to that account. Accordingly at block the method can include authenticating the user with a set of credentials associated with the master account e.g. with any of several known authentication schemes such as a userid password challenge a certificate exchange process and or the like as well as authentication techniques described in further detail below that employ sensors on a video calling device such as facial recognition voiceprint analysis gesture based identification spoken identifiers and or the like . Once the user has been authenticated the user interface can present the user with a variety of different information including without limitation information about status of video calling devices assigned to the master account to which the user has logged on options for controlling such video calling devices options for accessing videomail addressed to the user options for modifying videomail preferences and or the like.

Thus in some aspects the method might further comprise receiving e.g. via a network such as the Internet to name one example user preferences block and in particular user preferences relating to the access and control of video calling device s user preferences for capturing processing distributing or otherwise handling videomail user preferences for notifying the user regarding videomail user preferences such as those described above and or the like.

In some aspects the method might further comprise receiving e.g. via a network such as the Internet to name one example a request from the user to remotely access a video calling device s block . In an aspect the user can request such remote access by logging into his or her master account and requesting such access through the user interface. The user interface can provide many different mechanisms to allow the user to request access to a video calling device s . Merely by way of example the user interface might provide a button or other widget associated with each video calling device assigned to the account and the user can select the button widget associated with the video calling device s the user would like control. The user interface then can provide options for different types of control that the user can impose on video calling device s . For instance the user interface might have a list of commands from which the user can choose text input fields and or other widgets to select parameters such as image resolution number of images to capture link the video to capture time and or interval at which to capture images video and or the like . Based on these examples the skilled reader can appreciate that the user interface can provide any number of options to allow the user to control the selected video calling device s .

If the user has assigned multiple video calling devices to the master account the user might be presented with a list of the assigned devices in the user interface and receiving the user s request for access to one or more video calling devices can include receiving a selection in the user interface of the one or more video calling devices that the user would like to access. In accordance with some embodiments the user can access and or control multiple video calling devices at once as long as those devices are assigned to the same master account . For example in an office setting an administrator might wish to configure multiple video calling devices in the same way e.g. to enable access by multiple professionals to videomail messages left by clients of the company and or the like and the user interface can allow the administrator to select all desired video calling devices and control all of the selected cameras in the same way or in different ways. In the same manner the user interface can enable the administrator to establish private and or secure settings for each professional s video calling device to establish modify videomail settings for each individual professional and or the like. This functionality can also be used for example to update settings in multiple video calling devices at the same time to update firmware and or software in multiple video calling devices at the same time and or the like.

In a set of embodiments the method can include accessing the selected video calling device s from the control server over the network block . Accessing a video calling device s can comprise any operation that establishes communication between the control server and the video calling device s . For instance as noted above a video calling device s often will be identifiable and or addressable by an identifier such as an IP address etc. and accessing the device can comprise communicating with the video calling device s using any suitable protocol at the appropriate IP address. In some cases the control server will establish a secure connection with the video calling device s . Merely by way of example in one embodiment the control server will authenticate the video calling device s and or the video calling device s will authenticate the control server e.g. using a mutual authentication protocol such as certificate exchange and or the like and or the control server will establish an encrypted communication session with the video calling device s e.g. using any of a variety of known security techniques such as secure sockets layer communications IPSec tunnels and or the like .

As noted above in a set of embodiments the system can include a software client that can be installed on a computing device that comprises or is in communication with a video calling device s . Examples of such video calling device s can include without limitation an onboard camera on a tablet wireless phone laptop etc. and or a separate USB camera such as a webcam to provide a couple of examples. Any number of devices that have a software controllable camera and supports software installation can serve as such a computing device in accordance with different embodiments. In such embodiments accessing a video calling device s can comprise the control server communicating with that software client which in turn can provide the control server with indirect access to the video calling device s e.g. by interfacing with the computing device s operating system framework for controlling the video calling device s .

The method can also include controlling the video calling device s over the network based on the user input received via the user interface. Although the method describes the control operations from the perspective of the control server it should be appreciated that certain embodiments feature video calling devices that operate in response to control by the control server. So for example when this document refers to causing a video calling device to take some action the skilled reader will appreciate that certain embodiments include video calling devices that perform the described action in response to the control input from the control server.

Controlling the video calling device can comprise a variety of operations and those operations often will depend on what the user has requested. Merely by way of example in some cases controlling the video calling device can comprise receiving user input for remotely configuring the video calling device s block . The control server might configure a behavior of the video calling device s based on the received user input block . Such functionality can include causing the video calling device s to capture images or video as described above but can also include changing an operating parameter of the video calling device s such as an address e.g. IP address or other identifier of the device changing or assigning a nickname of the device changing or assigning an avatar image associated with the device and or the like.

In some cases the control server controls the video calling device s by sending one or more command codes to the video calling device s . These command codes can be used to provide the control described above such as configuring the video calling device s causing the video calling device s to determine whether or not the user is available to answer a video call causing the video calling device s to prompt a caller to leave a video mail message causing the video calling device s to record a videomail message from the video call causing the video calling device s to upload the videomail message to a server for post processing causing the video calling device s to notify the user that he or she has received a videomail message and or the like as well as to provide other commands such as causing the video calling device s to perform a network test and or perform other suitable operations such as those described above as well as operations like checking WiFi signal strength adjusting camera orientation e.g. pan tilt and or capture e.g. focal length white balance parameters changing device configuration e.g. time zone parameters restarting the device and or the like. In an aspect the control server and the video calling device s might share a set of command codes which both devices understand to represent desired commands and the method can include modifying the set of command codes and or transmitting the modified set of codes to the video calling device s . This capability can provide for upgradability and or advanced remote functionality as new features are developed. Similarly the control server can transmit updated firmware software to the video calling device s and or control the video calling device s to update its firmware as necessary.

Merely by way of example in some cases method might further comprise receiving a request to change user preferences for videomail block . In response to receiving such a request method might comprise displaying options related to user preferences for videomail block including without limitation user preferences for capturing processing distributing or otherwise handling videomail user preferences for notifying the user regarding videomail and or the like. At block method might comprise receiving user input associated with options related to the user preferences for videomail displayed at block . Method at block might comprise changing the user preferences for videomail based on the received user inputs at block .

In some embodiments method might further comprise receiving a request from the user to remotely access videomail block . In response to such a request method might at block comprise providing the user with remote access to the videomail. In some instances remote access might include a secure link to a URL addressing the videomail while in other instances remote access might include sending a videomail message attached to or embedded in an e mail notification to the user. In some aspects at block method might comprise receiving a request from the user to remotely respond to a videomail message to which the user was provided access at block . At block method might comprise enabling remote responses to the videomail message by initiating a video call request to the original caller who left the videomail message by leaving a videomail message for the original caller e.g. in the case that the original caller is presently unavailable to answer the video call by initiating a voice or telephone call to the original caller by sending an e mail message to the original caller by sending a text message to the original caller and or the like. Although the embodiments above refer to notification comprising e mail the notification can also comprise other forms of communication including but not limited to text messages that include the secure link to the URL addressing the videomail. Herein text messages might include without limitation SMS MMS and or the like.

Turning to the method might comprise registering a master account for a user block . This master account may be the same master account as the master account described in block or may be a different master account. In accordance with various embodiments registering a master account for a user can comprise a variety of operations. Merely by way of example registering a master account can comprise creating a database entry for a particular user and or assigning authentication credentials to that user these credentials can be used to access the master account as described in further detail below.

The method can also include assigning one or more PDDs PDDs to the master account block . As discussed above the one or more PDDs can be embodied by a video calling device such as any of the video calling devices described herein the VCDs described in the 182 patent a laptop computer a desktop computer a mobile phone a smart phone a tablet computer a video game console and or a streaming media player to name a few non limiting examples. For instance the user might identify any PDDs that the user owns or is otherwise associated with e.g. members of the user s family might be associated with the devices owned by the user and the system can assign those PDDs to the user s master account. According to some embodiments the user s master account might include any suitable number of sub accounts. In one example each member of the user s family might be associated with a sub account linked with the master account. In some instances the user or some members of his or her family might have a work school sub account and a home sub account the former being associated with profiles and or media content appropriate for school or work while the latter being associated with all or all other profiles and or media content. In some embodiments the master account and the plurality of sub accounts might be organized as a hierarchy with the master account being at the top of the hierarchical structure having full access to profiles and media content of each sub account the sub accounts at the next level having access to profiles and or media content of only those sub accounts that the master account has given access to and the sub accounts at lower levels having limited access to profiles and or media content. For example the user s master account might have access to all profiles and or media content associated with the master account and the sub accounts. The user can provide his or her spouse with a sub account having the same access to profiles and or media content while providing limited access to profiles and or media content to each of the user s children s sub account s . In some instances the user and or the user s spouse might impose limits on access to profiles and or media content for each of their work sub accounts.

In some cases each PDD might have an identifier such as a hardware identifier IP address nickname and or the like by which the system can address the PDD and assigning a PDD to the master account can comprise associating that identifier with the master account. When a PDD is assigned to a master account the user of that account will be able to access configure and or control the PDD through the control server for example as described in further detail below. In some cases the user might own a plurality of PDDs and might wish to control all of the PDDs from a single master account. In an aspect a user can identify such devices through a user interface to the control server.

In another aspect as described briefly above the assignment process can be simplified. When the user first configures a PDD usually locally but perhaps over the network the user can provide credentials to the PDD that associate the device with the master account. Thereafter the PDD might be configured to communicate with the control server and identify itself using those credentials at that point the control server can assign the PDD to the master account and no credentials need to be stored on the PDD from that point forward other than perhaps the PDD s own identifying information .

Hence the method in the illustrated embodiment might further comprise providing a user interface to allow interaction between the user and the control server block . For example the user interface can be used to output information for a user e.g. by displaying the information on a display device printing information with a printer playing audio through a speaker etc. the user interface can also function to receive input from a user e.g. using standard input devices such as mice and other pointing devices motion capture devices touchpads and or touchscreens keyboards e.g. numeric and or alphabetic microphones etc. The procedures undertaken to provide a user interface therefore can vary depending on the nature of the implementation in some cases providing a user interface can comprise displaying the user interface on a display device in other cases however in which the user interface is displayed on a device remote from the computer system such as on a client computer wireless device etc. providing the user interface might comprise formatting data for transmission to such a device and or transmitting receiving and or interpreting data that is used to create the user interface on the remote device. Alternatively and or additionally the user interface on a client computer or any other appropriate user device might be a web interface in which the user interface is provided through one or more web pages that are served from a computer system and or a web server in communication with the computer system and are received and displayed by a web browser on the client computer or other capable user device . The web pages can display output from the computer system and receive input from the user e.g. by using Web based forms via hyperlinks electronic buttons etc. . A variety of techniques can be used to create these Web pages and or display receive information such as JavaScript Java applications or applets dynamic Hypertext Markup Language HTML and or Asynchronous JavaScript and XML or extensible markup language AJAX technologies to name but a few examples.

In many cases providing a user interface will comprise providing one or more display screens each of which includes one or more user interface elements. As used herein the term user interface element also described as a user interface mechanism or a user interface device means any text image or device that can be displayed on a display screen for providing information to a user and or for receiving user input. Some such elements are commonly referred to as widgets and can include without limitation text text boxes text fields tables and or grids menus toolbars charts hyperlinks buttons lists combo boxes checkboxes radio buttons and or the like. While any illustrated exemplary display screens might employ specific user interface elements appropriate for the type of information to be conveyed received by computer system in accordance with the described embodiments it should be appreciated that the choice of user interface elements for a particular purpose is typically implementation dependent and or discretionary. Hence the illustrated user interface elements employed by any display screens described herein should be considered exemplary in nature and the reader should appreciate that other user interface elements could be substituted within the scope of various embodiments.

As noted above in an aspect of certain embodiments the user interface provides interaction between a user and a computer system. Hence when this document describes procedures for displaying or otherwise providing information to a user or to receiving input from a user the user interface may be the vehicle for the exchange of such input output. Merely by way of example in a set of embodiments the user interface allows the user to log on to a master account access PDDs via the control server access videomail and videomail settings preferences etc.

In an aspect of some embodiments the user logs onto his or her master account at the control server in order to access and or control PDDs assigned to that account and or access videomail and videomail preferences. Accordingly at block the method can include authenticating the user with a set of credentials associated with the master account e.g. with any of several known authentication schemes such as a userid password challenge a certificate exchange process and or the like as well as authentication techniques described in further detail below that employ sensors on a PDD such as facial recognition voiceprint analysis gesture based identification spoken identifiers and or the like . Once the user has been authenticated the user interface can present the user with a variety of different information including without limitation information about status of PDDs assigned to the master account to which the user has logged on options for controlling such PDDs options for accessing videomail addressed to the user options for modifying videomail preferences and or the like.

Thus in some aspects the method might further comprise receiving e.g. via a network such as the Internet to name one example user preferences block and in particular user preferences relating to the collection and or use of presence information including without limitation preferences such as those described above. The method then can further include controlling and or configuring the PDD in some cases based at least in part on the user preferences block . In some embodiments the user preferences might include user preferences for capturing processing distributing or otherwise handling videomail user preferences for notifying the user regarding videomail and or the like. Merely by way of example the user might have specified in the user preferences that the PDD should not be used to collect presence information at all in which case that feature might be turned off at the PDD. In the case that the user preferences indicate that presence information should be turned off e.g. privacy settings may be set high either permanently or temporarily and or with respect to certain user established and or preset conditions or the like some embodiments might establish a blocking feature for the user when other PDDs send presence information for comparison matching processes with database user biometrics the effect of which being that no match can be made and thus the user s profiles and or media content and or access thereto is not ported to the other PDDs. Alternatively and or additionally the user might have specified some limitations on the collection of presence information such as about whom such information may be collected times at which information can be collected and or purposes for which information may be collected to name a few examples . Of course in some embodiments these preferences can be set directly at the PDD e.g. through a menu system displayed on a video device. It should also be recognized that some preferences such as with whom presence information can be shared might not affect the PDD and might be saved and or operated on at the control server instead.

The amount of control imposed by the control server can vary according to embodiment and implementation. Merely by way of example as noted above in some embodiments there might be no control server and the PDD might incorporate all the functionality described herein with regard to the control server including peer to peer functionality with other PDDs. In other embodiments the control server might provide fairly fine grained control over the PDD such as instructing the camera to capture images for purposes of determining presence and or the control server may receive the images directly and perform the presence determination identification and or authentication procedures at the control server. The division of responsibility between the control server and the PDD can fall anywhere along this spectrum. In some cases for instance the control server might provide the user preferences to the PDD which then is responsible for collecting presence information in accordance with those preferences and transmitting the presence information to the control server which takes the appropriate action in response to the presence information such as selecting an advertisement based on the presence information. Alternatively and or additionally the PDD itself might be responsible for taking such actions.

At block the method can comprise collecting presence information. A variety of operations might be involved in the collection of presence information. For example in some cases the PDD captures one or more images of at least a portion of a room where it is located and or of a user present in the room block . Such images can be digital still images a digital video stream and or the like. In other cases the method can include capturing audio samples block identifying devices in proximity to the capturing device block and or the like for example as described above .

The method can further comprise analyzing one or more of the collected presence information block including one or more of the images video samples audio samples etc. Merely by way of example the images and or video samples might be analyzed with facial recognition software and or other biometric physiological recognition software which can be used to determine the number of people in the room with the PDD and or to identify any of such people e.g. by determining a name an age range a gender and or other identifying or demographic information about a user based on the output of the facial recognition software and or other biometric physiological recognition software . Alternatively and or additionally analyzing the images can comprise determining that a person is watching a display device for example using eye tracking software to identify a focus area of the person s eyes and correlating that focus area with the location on a screen or display of a television or other suitable display device . In some cases if the number of people and the identities or at least demographic characteristics of each of the people in the room can be determined analyzing the images can further include determining a collective demographic of the people in the room based for example on the demographic characteristics of a majority of people in the room . In further cases the method might analyze audio samples using voiceprint analysis compare user responses to stored challenge response information and or the like. As yet another example a camera of a PDD might capture user gestures which can be compared with stored gestures e.g. a particular pattern of hand waving a pattern of fingers displayed by the user etc. in a gesture based identification and or authentication scheme. It should be noted that many embodiments can use various combinations of such techniques such as a combination of facial analysis and spoken gestured or typed identifiers to name a few examples to provide two factor authentication.

Such analysis can be performed at the PDD and or at the control server. Accordingly in some embodiments the PDD will transmit presence information or other identifying information that can be used in part or in whole for identifying the user. Such identifying information can include raw or analyzed presence information as well as information derived from the presence information such as to name some examples extracted features from an image audio segment and or video segment an excerpted image video and or audio segment and or the like. Such presence information and or identifying information can be transmitted from the PDD to the control server block although as noted above this is not necessary in some embodiments e.g. where identifying the user or other analysis is performed at the PDD . Such transmission might comprise IP communications over the Internet perhaps over a secure channel such as a virtual private network VPN and as noted above the presence identifying information can include a wide variety of different types of information that enable the control server to determine presence and or identify authenticate a user. Hence at block the control server in a cloud based presence detection scheme might receive the transmitted presence information. In the case that raw presence information is received by the control server the control server might analyze the raw presence information in a similar manner as described above at block . At block the method comprises detecting and or determining presence of a user. This determination can be made by the PDD and or by the control server. In one case for example the PDD might transmit raw video segments raw images raw audio samples etc. to the server which might perform all analysis and presence determination. In another case the PDD might perform this analysis and might notify the control server that a user is present. Receiving such a notification at the control server can be considered to be the control server detecting presence of a user.

At block the method can include identifying and or authenticating a user. In some cases this identification and or authentication can be implicit in the operation of detecting user presence. For example in performing facial recognition to detect that a user is present the PDD and or control server might further analyze the same image to determine an identity of the present user. Alternatively however detection of user presence and identification authentication of the user might be performed as discrete steps and might depend on device capabilities . For example a PDD might have sufficient capabilities to detect the presence of the user and if so might send identifying information such as a captured image video sample audio sample etc. to the control server to actually identify the user. Alternatively the PDD might be capable of identifying the user on its own and might merely send the identity of the user i.e. data identifying the user such as a name username etc. to the server.

In some instances the PDD and or the control server i.e. in a cloud based presence scheme might have access to the user s profile or other personal information of the user including without limitation communications calendar items contacts list travel itinerary information IP address of user s PDD s or the like . Such profile or other personal information might indicate that the user is visiting a friend or relative in a different city state or country. In the case that the friend or family member has a similar PDD linked to a common network with the control server or other PDDs i.e. in a peer to peer or distributed computing scheme the user s PDD and or the control server if present might facilitate identification and or authentication of the user at the friend s or relative s PDD other PDD by for example sending the user s biometric physiological information to the other PDD and or to a data center local to the other PDD so as to reduce comparison matching times for identification authentication of the user at the other PDD. Such proactive autonomous facilitation functionality might in some cases be subject to the user s selection of such option in the user preferences e.g. at block above . In some cases the user might disable and or limit such functionality e.g. for privacy reasons for security reasons and or the like . In some embodiments the IP address of a PDD at which a user attempts to log in might be analyzed to determine the city in which the PDD is located. If the city or neighborhood or customer premises of the last PDD at which the user logged in or is otherwise authenticated by is determined to be different from the city or neighborhood or customer premises of the current PDD then it can be inferred that the user has moved or is travelling. Such inference may be used in some embodiments to further infer a general direction in which the user is travelling or to infer a potential destination s if sufficient numbers of data points locations are determined and can be used to send ahead the user s profile and or content to control servers and or PDDs that are at or near the determined potential destination s .

Once the present user has been identified and or authenticated the control server and or the PDD at which the user is present might enabling or implementing video mail capture processing and distribution over the network in accordance with any or all of the processes in blocks as described in detail above with respect to .

Alternatively in some embodiments the PDD and the video calling device might be the same user device in which case the video calling device might detect presence of a user as described in detail above with respect to the PDD and might notify a computer about the detected presence of a user. Such a video calling device might then receive over a network control instructions from the computer to enable or implement video mail capture processing and distribution based on the detected presence of the user.

According to some aspects in response to determining the presence of the user at block and or identifying and authenticating the user at block method might further comprise enabling remote access to the video calling device and or remote access to user preferences over the network block . In some cases the user preferences might include preferences related to videomail and or videomail settings. At block method might comprise enabling remote access to videomail over the network in some cases in response to determining the presence of the user at block and or identifying and authenticating the user at block .

In some embodiments the method might further comprise determining that a user is no longer present at the PDD block . For example as noted above the system might continuously and or periodically capture images and perform presence determination techniques e.g. as described above to determine whether the user is still present and or might actively query the user after some period of time to determine whether the user is still present. If the system determines that the user is no longer present the system can block remote access and control of the video calling device s from the PDD remote access to user preferences and remote access to videomail over the network block . For example the system might delete any image or video content transmitted from the video calling device s to the device log out of any services for controlling the video calling device s that the system had logged into from the PDD revoke access to image and or video content captured by the video calling device s and or post processed using raw captured image data or raw captured video data from the video calling device s stored in the cloud revoke access to view or modify user preferences including user preferences related to videomail revoke access to view or respond to videomail and or the like. This functionality is particularly useful and applicable to PDDs or other devices that are neither owned nor associated with the user e.g. a friend s or relative s device devices at a vacation hotel or vacation rental property etc. . Such determination and content access removal might in some instances be based on a time out system e.g. 5 15 30 or 80 minutes etc. in which the system might account for the user s temporary absence from the room while protecting the access to profiles with which accessing and control of the video calling device s may be associated and or with which videomail and videomail preferences may be associated videomail messages and or content. In some cases the user can select specific time out periods which can be stored in the user s profile and such specific time out periods can be universally applicable to some or all profiles some or all media content or some or all profiles and media content some or all videomail messages some or all preferences related to videomail or can be specific to particular profiles and or media content. In some cases user profiles might be associated with a much shorter time out period a time between 1 5 minutes compared with media content which might have a time out period ranging from 15 minutes to 3 hours or the like . The time out system might be based on a counter or clock system that starts counting from the last time the system recognized that the user was in range of any of the sensors of the PDD. Any suitable techniques other than the time out system described above may be implemented as appropriate.

The reader should note that a wide variety of presence based functions including without limitation those described in the Related Applications can be performed by the system in conjunction with various techniques described as part of the methods and or and that such functions can be combined in any suitable way. Merely by way of example the 603 application described advertising techniques that can be implemented based on detected presence and such techniques can be integrated with various techniques described as part of the method method and or method . For instance the system e.g. the control server the PDD the video calling device etc. might obtain relevant advertising material as described in the 603 application and display such advertising over content obtained and delivered using the techniques of the method method and or method . Based on this disclosure the skilled reader will understand that such techniques can be combined in a number of different ways.

In a video calling device might correspond to video calling device and or PDD while user device might correspond to non video calling device or non PDD user device as described in detail above with respect to . Control server network and cloud storage system in the example of might correspond to control server network and cloud storage system respectively as described in detail above with respect to .

System might further comprise a local content source e.g. a local content source as described above a display device including without limitation a television TV and or the like and high definition HD data cables or any other suitable data transmission media . In some cases the HD data cables might include without limitation high definition multimedia interface HDMI cables. One or more of the video calling devices e.g. the first video calling device and the third video calling device as shown in might be configured to provide pass through audio and or video from a local content source to a display device e.g. using data cables . Merely by way of example in some embodiments an HDMI input port in the video calling device allows HD signals to be input from the corresponding local content source and an HDMI output port in the video calling device allows HD signals to be output from the video calling device to the corresponding display device e.g. TV which might include but is not limited to an Internet Protocol TV IPTV an HDTV a cable TV or the like . The output HD signal may in some cases be the input HD signal modified by the video calling device . Local content source might be any suitable local content source. An noted above a local content source can be any device that provides an audio or video stream to a display device and thus can include without limitation a cable or satellite STB an IPTV STB devices that generate video and or audio and or acquire video and or audio from other sources such as the Internet and provide that video audio to a display device hence a local content source can include devices such as a video game console a Roku streaming media player an AppleTV and or the like. Hence when situated functionally inline between a local content source and a display device the video calling device can receive an audiovisual stream output from the local content source modify that audiovisual stream in accordance with the methods described in the 182 patent and provide the perhaps modified audiovisual stream as input to the display device . In some embodiments first video calling device local content source display device and user device if any might be located at a first customer premises while third video calling device local content source display device and user device if any might be located at a third customer premises . According to some embodiments the second video calling device which in the context of the various embodiments refers to the calling device associated with the caller might be located at a second customer premises . In some instances the second video calling device might be a portable user device including without limitation a tablet computer a laptop computer a smart phone a mobile phone a portable gaming device and or the like that is not bound to any particular customer premises .

According to some embodiments system might further comprise one or more access points not shown each of which might be located in proximity to or in the first customer premises the second customer premises and or the third customer premises . The access point s can allow wireless communication between each video calling device and network . Of course a video calling device might also have a wired connection to an access point router residential gateway etc. such as via an Ethernet cable which can provide similar communication functionality. In some cases as shown each video calling device might be communicatively coupled to network via either wired or wireless connection without routing through any access points. In some cases wired or wireless access to network allows video calling device to obtain profiles from cloud storage system and or media content from content server and media content database independent of the corresponding local content source which is in communication with a television TV distribution network either via wireless connection or via wired connection . In some cases not shown TV distribution network which could be for example a cable television distribution network a satellite television distribution network an Internet Protocol television IPTV distribution network and or the like might be communicatively coupled with content server and thus local content source might obtain media content from content server and media content database independently of video calling device . Alternatively or in addition the television distribution network might be communicatively coupled to other content servers and or other media content sources not shown .

In this manner video calling device can overlay the input signal from the corresponding local content source with additional media content to produce an augmented output HD signal to the corresponding display device via data cables . This functionality allows for supplemental content which may be associated with the media content accessed by the local content source for display on display device to be accessed and presented using the first video calling device in some cases as a combined presentation on the display device which may be one of an overlay arrangement e.g. a picture in picture PIP display with the supplemental content overlaid on the main content a split screen arrangement with the supplemental content adjacent to but not obscuring any portion of the main content a passive banner stream with non interactive supplemental content streaming in a banner s along one or more of a top bottom left or right edge of a display field in which the main content is displayed on display device and or an interactive banner stream with interactive supplemental content streaming in a banner s along one or more of a top bottom left or right edge of a display field in which the main content is displayed on display device . Herein examples of interactive supplemental content might include without limitation content that when streamed in a banner can be caused to slow stop and or replay within the banner in response to user interaction with the content and or the banner as opposed to passive banner streaming in which information is streamed in a manner uncontrollable by the user . The interactive supplemental content that is streamed in the banner may in some instances also allow the user to invoke operations or functions by interacting therewith for example by the user highlighting and or selecting the supplemental content e.g. an icon or still photograph of a character actor actress scene etc. associated with the main content links for related webpages links to further content stored in media content database or operations to display related content on display device and or user device may be invoked.

In some instances video calling device might detect the presence and or proximity of one or more user devices associated with the user and might based on user profile information associated with the user that is stored e.g. in cloud storage system automatically send supplemental media content via wireless link directly from video calling device or indirectly via an access point not shown for display on a display screen s of the one or more user devices . In one non limiting example a user associated with first video calling device might have established a user profile stored in cloud storage system that indicates a user preference for any and all supplemental content for movies and television programs to be compiled and displayed on one or more user devices including but not limited to a tablet computer a smart phone a laptop computer and or a desktop computer etc. concurrent to display of the movie or television program being displayed on display device . In such a case when a movie is playing on display device broadcast or streamed via local content source from content server and media content database and or from some other content server and some other media content source via network first video calling device accesses supplemental content if available from content server and media content database via network and sends the supplemental content to the user s tablet computer and or smart phone via wireless link s . For example bios of actors actresses and or crew might be sent to the user s smart phone for display on the screen thereof while schematics of machines weapons robots tools etc. associated with the movie or television show might be sent to and displayed on the user s tablet computer behind the scenes videos or information news reviews associated with the main content and or music videos associated with the main content may also be sent to the user s smart phone and or tablet computer and so on.

In some embodiments the first video calling device which in the context of the embodiments herein is associated with a user or callee and the second video calling device which in the context of the embodiments herein is associated with a caller might be of different make and or model i.e. might be made by different manufacturers might be of different models by the same manufacturer and or the like . According to some aspects the second video calling devices might have functionality similar to video calling device and or PDD but may or may not necessarily possess pass through capability between a display device and a local content source as described above with respect to the first and third video calling devices and

According to some embodiments the detection of the presence of the user device by the first video calling device and or the third video calling device might allow identification of a user and thus access of profiles content and or videomail associated with the user s account regardless of whether the first video calling device or the third video calling device is owned by and or associated with the user. Herein the user s media content might include without limitation at least one of purchased video content purchased audio content purchased video game purchased image content rented video content rented audio content rented video game rented image content user generated video content user generated audio content user generated video game content user generated image content and or free media content while the user s profiles might include but is not limited to one or more of user profile information for a video game or video game console web browser history and or bookmarks contact information for the user s contacts user profile information for video or audio content including without limitation recommended content device preferences videomail preferences user profile information for cloud services and or the like. Videomail herein might refer to videomail messages addressed to the user or callee. In some cases the user s profile might also include identifying information including but not limited to the user s biometric information e.g. facial characteristics voice characteristics fingerprint characteristics iris characteristics pupil characteristics retinal characteristics etc. or the like. In some examples the user profile information for cloud services might include user log in information e.g. username account number and or password passphrase etc. or other suitable credentials for cloud services which might include without limitation video calling service videomail service voice calling service video broadcast streaming service audio broadcast streaming service on line gaming service banking financial services travel accommodation rental vehicle services and or dining entertainment event reservation ticketing services or the like.

In one example a user might be associated with first video calling device located in the first customer premises while her friend might be associated with third video calling device located in the third customer premises and the user and the friend are both subscribers of a similar service provided by control server and or the cloud service provider associated with control server . When the user visits her friend the friend s video calling device might first detect presence of the user by querying and or obtaining the identification information for the user s smart phone and or tablet computer or the like by capturing video image and or voice data of the user by infrared detection of a living person in the room and or by audio detection of a living person in the room etc. The friend s video calling device might then identify the user using the user s device s identification information and or the captured video image and or voice data or might send such presence information to control server for identification and authentication analysis. In some cases detecting presence of or identifying authenticating the user might include without limitation analyzing captured images or video segments using one or more of facial recognition software pupil iris recognition software retinal identification software fingerprint analysis software and or physiology recognition software analyzing captured audio samples using one or more of voiceprint analysis and or comparison with stored challenge response information and or identification of a user device owned by and or associated with the user e.g. based on identification information of the device which may be previously associated with the user or the user s profile s etc. . In terms of detection of the presence of the user s device any suitable technique may be implemented including but not limited to at least one of detecting a Bluetooth connection of the user device detecting that the user device is associated with a WiFi access point with which the video calling device has associated and or communicating with the user device using near field communication NFC .

Once the user has been identified and authenticated control server might send copies of the user s profiles and or content to the third video calling device either from first video calling device and or from cloud storage system or the like or at least provide the user with access to her profiles videomail and or content from her friend s video calling device . In some embodiments the identification and authentication processes might include comparing the user device identification information and or the captured video image and or voice data against all similar identification data for all users subscribers of the cloud service that are stored in cloud storage system . In some cases the process might be facilitated where video calling devices and might already be associated with each other e.g. where the user has previously made a video call from first video calling device to her friend on third video calling device where the user might have added the friend to the user s contact list and or where the friend might have added the user to the friend s contact list . In other cases the user s first video calling device might have access to the user s calendar and or communications which might indicate that the user is visiting the friend. The first video calling device might query control server to determine whether the friend has a video calling device associated with the cloud service provider. In this example the first video calling device determines that third video calling device is part of the same service and or is in communication with control server and based on such determination first video calling device and or control server might send the user s profiles and or content to third video calling device and or provide third video calling device with access to the user s profiles videomail and or content. In some embodiments the user s profiles videomail and or content or access to profiles videomail and or content might be encrypted and might be released decrypted upon identification and or authentication by third video calling device and or by control server when the user is detected by third video calling device . In this manner the user s profiles videomail and or content can follow the user wherever she goes so long as there is a device e.g. video calling device that is associated with the same or affiliate cloud service provider at her destination and so long as the device can recognize and authenticate the user.

By the same token if the user is no longer detected by the third video calling device either after a predetermined number of prompts or queries for the user and or after a predetermined period of time e.g. after a specified number of minutes hours days weeks months etc. third video calling device and or control server might determine that the user is no longer present at the location of third video calling device . Based on such a determination third video calling device and or control server might remove the user s profiles videomail and or media content or access thereto from third video calling device . As described above a time out system might be utilized. Alternatively other suitable systems may be used for determining the user is no longer present and removing the user s profiles videomail and or media content or access thereto from the third video calling device

In although each user device is shown as a smart phone the various embodiments are not so limited and user devices might be any suitable user device comprising without limitation an HDTV an IPTV a cable TV a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a mobile phone a portable gaming device other suitable user devices or any combination of these user devices.

User device might comprise device housing a display screen and the like. In some embodiments display screen might comprise a touchscreen display a non touchscreen display and or the like. In the examples of a panel of a graphical user interface GUI might present a message or notification from the service provider in this example the videomail service provider to the user indicating that the user or callee associated with the user device and associated with the first video calling device has received a new videomail message s from a caller. The panel or notification might provide the user or callee with links to access the videomail message s and or to access the user s or callee s account information including without limitation master account information user profiles user preferences related to videomail videomail messages and or the like . In some cases the links include one or more universal resource locators URLs addressing the videomail message s which in some cases have been post processed after recording to be compatible with most if not all formats play back devices resolutions and or the like.

In the embodiment illustrated in a panel might represent a user s or callee s accounts page which might include options which might comprise but are not limited to options pertaining to the user s devices options for accessing videomail options for modifying account settings including master account settings user profile settings user preferences videomail preferences and or the like and or an option to logout of the user s account page or the like. In some embodiments the options for accessing videomail might include but are not limited to options to view one or more videomail messages options to mark one or more videomail messages as being viewed options to mark one or more videomail messages as being not yet viewed options to respond to one or more videomail messages options to delete one or more videomail messages and or the like. According to some aspects the videomail preferences might include without limitation preferences for notifying the user of any new or not yet viewed videomail messages preferences related to prompting callers to leave videomail messages preferences for recording videomail prompts preferences related to post processing of videomail messages and or the like.

The computer system is shown comprising hardware elements that can be electrically coupled via a bus or may otherwise be in communication as appropriate . The hardware elements may include one or more processors including without limitation one or more general purpose processors and or one or more special purpose processors such as digital signal processing chips graphics acceleration processors and or the like one or more input devices which can include without limitation a mouse a keyboard and or the like and one or more output devices which can include without limitation a display device a printer and or the like.

The computer system may further include and or be in communication with one or more storage devices which can comprise without limitation local and or network accessible storage and or can include without limitation a disk drive a drive array an optical storage device solid state storage device such as a random access memory RAM and or a read only memory ROM which can be programmable flash updateable and or the like. Such storage devices may be configured to implement any appropriate data stores including without limitation various file systems database structures and or the like.

The computer system might also include a communications subsystem which can include without limitation a modem a network card wireless or wired an infra red communication device a wireless communication device and or chipset such as a Bluetooth device an 802.11 device a WiFi device a WiMax device a WWAN device cellular communication facilities etc. and or the like. The communications subsystem may permit data to be exchanged with a network such as the network described below to name one example with other computer systems and or with any other devices described herein. In many embodiments the computer system will further comprise a working memory which can include a RAM or ROM device as described above.

The computer system also may comprise software elements shown as being currently located within the working memory including an operating system device drivers executable libraries and or other code such as one or more application programs which may comprise computer programs provided by various embodiments and or may be designed to implement methods and or configure systems provided by other embodiments as described herein. Merely by way of example one or more procedures described with respect to the method s discussed above might be implemented as code and or instructions executable by a computer and or a processor within a computer in an aspect then such code and or instructions can be used to configure and or adapt a general purpose computer or other device to perform one or more operations in accordance with the described methods.

A set of these instructions and or code might be encoded and or stored on a non transitory computer readable storage medium such as the storage device s described above. In some cases the storage medium might be incorporated within a computer system such as the system . In other embodiments the storage medium might be separate from a computer system i.e. a removable medium such as a compact disc etc. and or provided in an installation package such that the storage medium can be used to program configure and or adapt a general purpose computer with the instructions code stored thereon. These instructions might take the form of executable code which is executable by the computer system and or might take the form of source and or installable code which upon compilation and or installation on the computer system e.g. using any of a variety of generally available compilers installation programs compression decompression utilities etc. then takes the form of executable code.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that substantial variations may be made in accordance with specific requirements. For example customized hardware such as programmable logic controllers field programmable gate arrays application specific integrated circuits and or the like might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets etc. or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

As mentioned above in one aspect some embodiments may employ a computer system such as the computer system to perform methods in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. According to a set of embodiments some or all of the procedures of such methods are performed by the computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions which might be incorporated into the operating system and or other code such as an application program contained in the working memory . Such instructions may be read into the working memory from another computer readable medium such as one or more of the storage device s . Merely by way of example execution of the sequences of instructions contained in the working memory might cause the processor s to perform one or more procedures of the methods described herein.

According to some embodiments system might further comprise one or more sensors which might include without limitation one or more cameras one or more IR sensors and or one or more 3D sensors or the like. In some cases the one or more sensors might be incorporated in or might otherwise be one of the input device s . The output device s might in some embodiments further include one or more monitors one or more TVs and or one or more display screens or the like.

The terms machine readable medium and computer readable medium as used herein refer to any medium that participates in providing data that causes a machine to operate in a specific fashion. In an embodiment implemented using the computer system various computer readable media might be involved in providing instructions code to processor s for execution and or might be used to store and or carry such instructions code e.g. as signals . In many implementations a computer readable medium is a non transitory physical and or tangible storage medium. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical and or magnetic disks such as the storage device s . Volatile media includes without limitation dynamic memory such as the working memory . Transmission media includes without limitation coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus as well as the various components of the communication subsystem and or the media by which the communications subsystem provides communication with other devices . Hence transmission media can also take the form of waves including without limitation radio acoustic and or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications .

Common forms of physical and or tangible computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read instructions and or code.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to the processor s for execution. Merely by way of example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk and or optical disc of a remote computer. A remote computer might load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions as signals over a transmission medium to be received and or executed by the computer system . These signals which might be in the form of electromagnetic signals acoustic signals optical signals and or the like are all examples of carrier waves on which instructions can be encoded in accordance with various embodiments of the invention.

The communications subsystem and or components thereof generally will receive the signals and the bus then might carry the signals and or the data instructions etc. carried by the signals to the working memory from which the processor s retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by the working memory may optionally be stored on a storage device either before or after execution by the processor s .

As noted above a set of embodiments comprises systems collecting presence information and or enabling remote access to information including without limitation master account information profiles and or videomail to a user on a user device in some cases based on presence information regardless of whether the user device is owned by and or associated with the user . illustrates a schematic diagram of a system that can be used in accordance with one set of embodiments. The system can include one or more user computers . In particular a user computer can be a video calling device a PDD and or a user device as described above. More generally a user computer can be a general purpose personal computer including merely by way of example desktop computers workstations tablet computers laptop computers handheld computers mobile phones smart phones and the like running any appropriate operating system several of which are available from vendors such as Apple Microsoft Corp. as well a variety of commercially available UNIX or UNIX like operating systems. A user computer can also have any of a variety of applications including one or more applications configured to perform methods provided by various embodiments as described above for example as well as one or more office applications database client and or server applications and or web browser applications. Alternatively a user computer can be any other electronic device such as a thin client computer Internet enabled mobile telephone and or personal digital assistant capable of communicating via a network e.g. the network described below and or of displaying and navigating web pages or other types of electronic documents. Although the exemplary system is shown with two user computers any number of user computers can be supported.

Certain embodiments operate in a networked environment which can include a network . The network can be any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially available and or free or proprietary protocols including without limitation TCP IP SNA IPX AppleTalk and the like. Merely by way of example the network can include a local area network LAN including without limitation a fiber network an Ethernet network a Token Ring network and or the like a wide area network a wireless wide area network WWAN a virtual network such as a virtual private network VPN the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network PSTN an infra red network a wireless network including without limitation a network operating under any of the IEEE 802.11 suite of protocols the Bluetooth protocol known in the art and or any other wireless protocol and or any combination of these and or other networks.

Embodiments can also include one or more server computers . Each of the server computers may be configured with an operating system including without limitation any of those discussed above with respect to the user computers as well as any commercially or freely available server operating systems. Each of the servers may also be running one or more applications which can be configured to provide services to one or more clients and or other servers .

Merely by way of example one of the servers might be a control server with the functionality described above. In another embodiment one of the servers might be a web server which can be used merely by way of example to provide communication between a user computer and a control server for example to process requests for web pages or other electronic documents from user computers and or to provide user input to the control server. The web server can also run a variety of server applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers database servers Java servers and the like. In some embodiments of the invention the web server may be configured to serve web pages that can be operated within a web browser on one or more of the user computers to perform operations in accordance with methods provided by various embodiments.

The server computers in some embodiments might include one or more application servers which can be configured with one or more applications accessible by a client running on one or more of the client computers and or other servers . Merely by way of example the server s can be one or more general purpose computers capable of executing programs or scripts in response to the user computers and or other servers including without limitation web applications which might in some cases be configured to perform methods provided by various embodiments . Merely by way of example a web application can be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any suitable programming language such as Java C C or C and or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations of any programming and or scripting languages. The application server s can also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase IBM and the like which can process requests from clients including depending on the configuration dedicated database clients API clients web browsers etc. running on a user computer and or another server . In some embodiments an application server can create web pages dynamically for displaying the information in accordance with various embodiments such as providing a user interface for a control server as described above. Data provided by an application server may be formatted as one or more web pages comprising HTML JavaScript etc. for example and or may be forwarded to a user computer via a web server as described above for example . Similarly a web server might receive web page requests and or input data from a user computer and or forward the web page requests and or input data to an application server. In some cases a web server may be integrated with an application server.

In accordance with further embodiments one or more servers can function as a file server and or can include one or more of the files e.g. application code data files etc. necessary to implement various disclosed methods incorporated by an application running on a user computer and or another server . Alternatively as those skilled in the art will appreciate a file server can include all necessary files allowing such an application to be invoked remotely by a user computer and or server .

It should be noted that the functions described with respect to various servers herein e.g. application server database server web server file server etc. can be performed by a single server and or a plurality of specialized servers depending on implementation specific needs and parameters. Further as noted above the functionality of one or more servers might be implemented by one or more containers or virtual machines operating in a cloud environment and or a distributed cloud like environment based on shared resources of a plurality of user video calling devices and or a plurality of PDDs.

In certain embodiments the system can include one or more data stores . The nature and location of the data stores is discretionary merely by way of example one data store might comprise a database that stores information about master accounts user profiles user preferences assigned video calling devices etc. Alternatively and or additionally a data store might be a cloud storage environment for storing master accounts user profiles user preferences uploaded videomail messages and or the like. As the skilled reader can appreciate the database and the cloud storage environment might be collocated and or separate from one another. Some or all of the data stores might reside on a storage medium local to and or resident in a server . Conversely any of the data stores and especially the cloud storage environment might be remote from any or all of the computers so long as it can be in communication e.g. via the network with one or more of these. In a particular set of embodiments a database can reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art and or the cloud storage environment might comprise one or more SANs. Likewise any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers can be stored locally on the respective computer and or remotely as appropriate. In one set of embodiments the database can be a relational database such as an Oracle database that is adapted to store update and retrieve data in response to SQL formatted commands. The database might be controlled and or maintained by a database server as described above for example.

As noted above the system can also include a first video calling device and a second video calling devices . The first video calling device in the context of the examples described herein corresponds to the device associated with the user or callee while the second video calling device corresponds to the device associated with the caller. The system might further include a third video calling device from which the user or callee can remotely access the user s master account user preferences videomail and or the like. In some embodiments the third video calling device might be configured to enable presence detection functionalities described in detail above. Although only three video calling devices are illustrated in it should be appreciated that any number of video calling devices may be implemented in accordance with various embodiments. Using the techniques described herein the first video calling device or the second video calling device can determine whether or not the user or callee is available for a video call initiated by the second video calling device prompt the caller to leave a videomail message based at least in part on a determination that the user or callee is not available record the videomail message and send the videomail message for post processing in some cases by one of the servers . Each of the first video calling devices the second video calling devices and or the third video calling devices may be or may have similar functionality as a video calling device or a PDD as described in detail above in some cases each of the first video calling devices the second video calling devices and or the third video calling devices might be or may have similar functionality as a VCD as described in the 182 patent.

While certain features and aspects have been described with respect to exemplary embodiments one skilled in the art will recognize that numerous modifications are possible. For example the methods and processes described herein may be implemented using hardware components software components and or any combination thereof. Further while various methods and processes described herein may be described with respect to particular structural and or functional components for ease of description methods provided by various embodiments are not limited to any particular structural and or functional architecture but instead can be implemented on any suitable hardware firmware and or software configuration. Similarly while certain functionality is ascribed to certain system components unless the context dictates otherwise this functionality can be distributed among various other system components in accordance with the several embodiments.

Moreover while the procedures of the methods and processes described herein are described in a particular order for ease of description unless the context dictates otherwise various procedures may be reordered added and or omitted in accordance with various embodiments. Moreover the procedures described with respect to one method or process may be incorporated within other described methods or processes likewise system components described according to a particular structural architecture and or with respect to one system may be organized in alternative structural architectures and or incorporated within other described systems. Hence while various embodiments are described with or without certain features for ease of description and to illustrate exemplary aspects of those embodiments the various components and or features described herein with respect to a particular embodiment can be substituted added and or subtracted from among other described embodiments unless the context dictates otherwise. Consequently although several exemplary embodiments are described above it will be appreciated that the invention is intended to cover all modifications and equivalents within the scope of the following claims.

