---

title: Sharing location information during a communication session
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes establishing a communication session between a first device and a second device. The first device is a mobile computing device. The location of the first device is received at the second device. The location of the first device is displayed on a graphical user interface of the second device during the communication session.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09225748&OS=09225748&RS=09225748
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09225748
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140501
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 598 191 filed Aug. 29 2012 and entitled SHARING LOCATION INFORMATION DURING A COMMUNICATION SESSION which is currently pending.

Individuals may communicate with each other using a variety of methods including emails text messages instant messages social networking messages and other communication methods from various locations. Many times an interface built for carrying messaging of these types is limited specifically to the specific type of communication being exchanged. For example an interface that displays text messages may only display text messages created by the participants in the communication. Similarly an interface that displays social networking messages may only display social networking messages created by the participants in the communication. For the communication participants the narrow context of these interfaces can be limiting.

In particular embodiments a method includes establishing a communication session between a first device and a second device. The first device may be a mobile computing device. The second device may receive a location of the first device. The second device may display the location of the first device on a graphical user interface of the second device during the communication session.

Users of communication systems often communicate with one another from disparate geographic locations. During a communication session such as when communicating via text messages a user may want to provide his or her location to the other participants of the conversation for example to facilitate meeting in person. In this example the user may try to provide the location manually using text messages and or may resort to calling the other participants of the conversation to give a verbal description of their location. If the user s location is changing e.g. because they are moving to meet the other participants the user may have to continually provide the location manually. Additionally this manual form of location sharing may be limiting if for example the user does not know her exact location or cannot articulate her location precisely. Particular embodiments of the present disclosure allow the user s mobile device to automatically provide his or her location to other conversation participants. The location provided may be more accurate than what the user could have provided manually. Furthermore the location may be updated periodically as the user s geographic location changes. Moreover the other participants may be able to view both the user s location and the previous messages in the communication session at the same time.

During a communication session participants may use various methods of communication such as text messages voice calls and instant messages. The user may want to provide his location to another conversation participant across these disparate communication mediums. Particular embodiments of the present disclosure allow aggregation of these communication types on an interface of the other participants while also providing location information.

Certain embodiments of the invention may include none some or all of the above technical advantages. One or more other technical advantages may be readily apparent to one skilled in the art from the figures descriptions and claims included herein.

Network may include one or more interconnected networks over which various systems and hosts described herein may communicate. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more portions of network may include an ad hoc network an intranet a private network an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless network a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a packet based wide area network a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network a satellite network a paging network or a combination of two or more of these.

Wireless cellular network may include one or more interconnected networks over which various systems and hosts described herein may communicate. This disclosure contemplates any suitable wireless cellular network . For example wireless cellular network may include one or more base stations that communicate wirelessly with one or more client devices . Wireless cellular network may facilitate communication between client devices network and other components coupled to network .

Third party websites may include but are not limited to social networking websites shopping sites review sites such as Yelp or any third party website with which a user maintains an account to interact with content or other users. Third party IM service may include but is not limited to Google Chat or a similar service allowing users to send instant messages to each other. Third party social media site may include but is not limited to Twitter LinkedIn Google Plus or other social media site. VoIP service may include but is not limited to Skype or a similar service that offers voice calls over IP. Video service may include but is not limited to FaceTime Tango or other similar service that offers video calls. Other services may include e mail servers storage facilities or other third party services that may communicate with social networking system or clients through network .

A client device may interact with the third party services through a web browser or a dedicated application local to the client device . For example client devices may interact with third party instant messaging service such as Google Chat by logging into a user s Gmail account via a web browser or by installing and running a dedicated Google Talk application. Similarly a client device may interact with a third party social media site such as Twitter via a browser or through a dedicated Twitter application. Client devices may similarly communicate with third party websites VoIP service video service and other third party services .

A user of a client device interacts with the social networking system via an application such as a web browser or a dedicated application of client device to perform operations such as browsing content posting and sending communications retrieving and sorting communications received from other users and the like. Communications may be in any suitable format such as electronic mail e mail messages chat messages comments left on a user s webpage and short message service SMS text messages. Messages may contain text or other content such as pictures videos sounds and attachments. Each user has a mailbox that includes communications that are both sent and received by the user.

Client device may also interact with other client devices through wireless network or network . For example client device may participate in VoIP or non VoIP calls with other cellular phones computers landlines or other communication devices transmit and receive texts or multi media message through the SMS or multimedia messaging service MMS channels or receive push notifications through the SMS control channel.

Third party services may interact with social networking system via an application programming interface API . For example a third party website may perform operations supported by API such as delivering user communications to social network system retrieving user communications stored by social networking system and obtaining social information about users of social networking system .

Social networking system enables users to interact with each other through the system. Social networking system may create and store a record often referred to as a user profile for each user. The user profile may include a user s contact information background information employment information demographic information personal interests or other suitable information. Each user profile may be stored as an object in object store . Social networking system may also create and store a record of a user s relationship with other users in social networking system . In particular embodiments this information may be stored as a social graph in a graph information store . In the social graph individuals groups entities or organizations may be represented as nodes in the graph and the nodes may be connected by edges that represent one or more specific types of interdependency. Social networking system may also provide services e.g. wall posts photo sharing event organization messaging games or advertisements to facilitate social interaction between users in the social networking system . Social networking system may provide content and communications related to its services to a user s client device over network .

Mailbox module of social networking system provides functionality for powering the messaging system of social networking system . In a particular embodiment the mailbox module receives organizes and presents communications to or from users in the social networking system via an interactive user interface. The interactive user interface may be for example a webpage that is viewed by a user with a web browser or a dedicated application residing on the user s computing device . In particular embodiments the interactive user interface may be a combination of server and client side rendering depending on processing and bandwidth capacity. Functionality provided by mailbox module may include organizing communications into conversations quick reply categorizing conversations conversation states conversation searching new message notification formatting of e mails forwarding communications between conversations and invitation based conversation among others. In particular embodiments communications occurring outside of the social networking system are aggregated with communications occurring through the social networking system by mailbox module at any suitable time such as when a client device performs an aggregation operation. In particular embodiments communications requiring interaction with third party services are pulled automatically through one or more APIs and stored at mailbox module . In particular embodiments a mixture of client push and server pulls are used to aggregate communications from various sources at mailbox module . In particular embodiments a local application on a client device performs one or more of the operations of mailbox module and pulls communications from social network and third party services to client device .

Particular embodiments of social networking environment facilitate communication and display of the location of a client device on one or more other client devices during a communication session. In one example embodiment users of client devices and may communicate with one another using an instant messaging application. The user of client device is in transit to meet the user of client device and as such decides that the location of client device should be communicated to client device . The location then may be displayed on a graphical user interface GUI of client device as a pin on a map. The users of client devices and may continue their instant messaging communication session while the user of client device travels to meet the user of client device and while the location of client device is displayed on the map of the GUI of client device . To add on to this example the user of client device additionally may be added to the instant messaging communication session. The user of client device is also in transit to meet the user of client device . The user of client device also decides to communicate the location of client device to the user of client device . The location of client device then may also be displayed on map of the GUI of client device . In this way the user of client device may follow the progress of the users of client devices and as they make their way to user of client device

GUIs also include message panes . Message panes display communications between User and User . Communications may be any suitable type of communications. For example a communication may be an SMS or MMS message a call e.g. a phone call VoIP session a video call a voicemail a push to talk PTT message an email an instant message a tweet a chat a social network message including a post on a wall of a social network website or a message sent via a social network website or other communication between the users of the client devices. A communication may include text exchanged during the communication e.g. the actual text of the communication or a voice transcription of the communication or any suitable information regarding the communication such as the time or duration of the communication whether the communication was an outgoing incoming or missed communication or other suitable information.

Message panes may include various types of communications aggregated into a single communication thread. For example if User sends an instant message to User and also separately sends an e mail to User both of these messages may be placed into the same communication thread and thus appear on message panes . Similarly if User leaves User a voicemail an indicator of the voicemail such as the date and time it was left or transcribed text from the voicemail may be placed into message panes . As another example if User calls User the log of the call may also be placed in the message panes .

In particular embodiments message panes display communications in the same format regardless of the type of the communications. For example in certain embodiments communication is transmitted in an e mail and communication is transmitted via an SMS text message. As shown in communication and communication each appear in a conversation bubble. Thus the messages in message panes may appear in a similar format regardless of the type of the particular communication. In other embodiments the format of the communications that appear in message panes may depend on the type of the communication. In such embodiments communication and communication may appear alongside different icons such as an icon depicting an envelope for an e mail or an icon depicting a phone for an SMS text message.

The messages that appear in message panes may appear in any suitable order. For example messages may be ordered based on the time of the communications the types of the communications the importance of the communication or any other suitable factor. In particular embodiments messages of a particular type may be grouped together and the group including the most recent communication may be displayed first. In other embodiments a communication marked as important may be displayed before the most recent communication. In some embodiments a subset of communications of a particular communication type are grouped together. For example emails having a common subject may be grouped together.

Communications between User and User may be identified by the client devices in any suitable manner. The communications may be stored at any suitable location such as client device social networking system a third party service or a combination of the preceding. An application local to device residing at a server hosted by social networking system or at another suitable network location may aggregate communications between specific users engaging in communications regardless of where the communications are stored.

In particular embodiments the application may communicate with devices social networking system or third party services or to aggregate communications between users communicating messages to one another. For example the application may receive communications from the social networking system or the third party services and determine users that are participants in the communications. Accordingly when the application receives a request for a conversation between particular users the application may identify communications in which the users are participants. Any suitable identifying information may be used to identify the participants in a communication with one another. For example the telephone number network address user profile identifier or other suitable identifying information may be used to identify communication participants.

In particular embodiments social networking system may facilitate determination of the participants in a communication session. Users of social networking system may be stored as objects in the social networking system . For example as described above object store may include a profile for each user that comprises a profile name an e mail address a profile picture and other identifying information. Particular communications may include identifying information that matches identifying information included in the profile of a user stored in object store . Accordingly one or more users of the social networking system that participated in the communication may be identified by accessing information stored by object store . For example an e mail from firstname.lastname yahoo.com can be identified from information in the object store as being an e mail from the user James White. As another example a video chat facilitated through third party video service may involve participants that have a specific user ID. In particular embodiments this user ID is stored with the user profile in object store and used to identify the social network users that participated in the video chat.

Messaging panes can be updated in a real time manner as new communications are received or sent. Messaging panes may allow a user to scroll backwards in time or other order to view the entire history of communications in messaging panes . In a particular embodiment some of the communications have attachments such as pictures videos documents or other files. The attachments can be shown in the messaging panes through a preview of the attachment instead of just a link to the attachment. For example an attached picture can be shown in the interface with a thumbnail of the picture.

GUIs also include message entry areas that User or User may use to draft and transmit a communication to each other or another user. Message entry areas may display a keyboard activate a speech recognition application or effectuate other text entry means in response to a touch or other selection from the users. After text is entered via the keyboard through the speech recognition application or through other means the text may be transmitted to the other users via any suitable format. By way of example and not limitation the text may be transmitted according to a communication type described above. In particular embodiments the default communication type used to transmit the text is an SMS message but any other suitable type may be used such as an email or social network message. In a particular embodiment the communication type is based on a telephone number network address or other identifier associated with the incoming call. For example if the incoming call is associated with a mobile phone number the communication type may default to an SMS message whereas if the incoming call is associated with a home phone number then a different communication type such as an email may be used. In particular embodiments the communication type is selected based on the contact information available for the users of the client devices or the communication history between the users engaging in communication. For example if the majority of communications between User and User are e mail the text entered in message entry area may be sent via email. Message entry area may also include the option to attach a file to the communication such as a picture video document or other file which may be accessed via option tool . In certain embodiments option tool may also be used to request that a location of a client device for User or User be sent to the client device of the other user. The user may select option tool by for example touching a touch screen pressing a mechanical button such as key of a keypad or a button of a mouse or in any other suitable manner.

Upon choosing to share location the user of a client device may configure various options associated with the sharing. As one non limiting example the user may specify timing attributes associated with the sharing location information as shown in GUI . GUI represents a screen the user may see after selecting the Location option in menu . GUI includes a menu with timing choices available to a user of a client device. In embodiments where the location of client device is shared periodically these timing choices may represent how often the location is communicated to the other client devices. For example a selection of 10 minutes may direct the client device to share its location once every ten minutes. A selection of 30 minutes may direct the client device to share its location once every 30 minutes while a selection of 1 hour may direct the client device to share its location once every hour. While the options shown in the depicted embodiment are ten minutes 30 minutes and one hour any suitable amount of time may be selected. Smaller time intervals may have the effect of the location of the client device being shown in real time on the recipient client devices. These selections may have repercussions on battery life if the client device is a mobile phone for example. Using location determining functionality frequently on a mobile client device may consume battery power more quickly than using location determining functionality less frequently.

In particular embodiments the timing options presented in menu represent a time period during which location information will be communicated to recipient devices. For example a selection of 10 minutes may direct a client device to communicate its location in any suitable time interval for the next ten minute period. A selection of 30 minutes may direct a client device to communicate its location in any suitable time interval for the next thirty minute time period. A selection of 1 hour may direct a client device to communicate its location in any suitable time interval for the next hour. Any other suitable timing choices may also be made available to the user. For example the user may be presented with a Continuous option that directs the client device to communicate location information in any suitable time interval to recipient client devices indefinitely.

Where appropriate the user may have various other choices when choosing to share location information of a client device with other client devices. In certain embodiments these options may be presented in GUIs similar to GUIs and . For example the user may be presented with an option to select which specific users of those who are apart of a group communication session will receive the location information. As another example the user may select an image that may be displayed to recipient user when the location is displayed on their client device.

In particular embodiments these options may be determined prior to the user requesting that location information be sent to recipient devices and or prior to the communication session. These options may be stored locally on the client device in a third party service such as third party website in object store or in any other suitable location. For example an application on the client device may be configured to automatically communicate location information to recipient devices during a communication session. In some embodiments the user may provide a list of users to whom location information should be communicated during a communication. As another example the timing considerations e.g. time limit periodic delay amount etc. may be pre configured before a communication session begins and or before a request is received to communicate location information.

The location of the client device may be determined in any suitable manner. For example an application on the client device may use cell tower triangulation Wi Fi positioning and or GPS positioning to determine location information of the client device. As another example a geographic location of an Internet connected computing device may be identifiable by the computing device s IP address. The location information may be communicated as geographic coordinates address information the name of building business and or in any other suitable manner. The location information may be communicated directly to the recipient devices and or to a service such as social networking system which may then communicate the location information to recipient devices.

In contrast to image pane that displayed solely an image of User image panes display a map. On the map pin indicators indicate the location of User s client device. Pin indicator may be in a different location than pin indicator which may indicate that the location of User s client device has changed. Profile pictures display an image of User . In certain embodiments arrow indicates a direction of travel of User s client device. In some embodiments the direction may be embedded in the location information received from User s client device or from a social networking system or third party service. In other embodiments the direction may be determined by User s client device by comparing previously received location information to current location information to determine a directional vector. In certain embodiments the direction of travel may be indicated textually instead of or in addition to arrow . Image panes may also include pin indicators which indicate the location of User s client device. The recipient client device may determine its own location using any of the methods described above. This may assist User in locating User in relation to User . In some embodiment a directional vector of User may be shown that indicates User s direction of travel similar to arrow . Additionally in communication sessions with more than two participants multiple other pin indicators may be shown representing the locations of other client devices that are also transmitting their location information.

Although depicted generally at the top of GUIs image panes may appear in any suitable location. By way of example image panes also could be displayed at the bottom left or right of message panes . In certain embodiments messaging panes may appear as a translucent overlay on top of image panes . Likewise image panes may appear as a translucent overlay on top of messaging panes . In certain embodiments image pages and messaging panes may appear on the user s display one at a time. In such embodiments the other pane may be accessible by dragging the screen using a mouse e.g. to the left right up down etc. by using a finger swipe on a touch screen e.g. to the left right up down etc. by depressing a mechanical key on the client device or any other suitable method. As shown in these examples the user may have multiple options for display of location information of another user s client device and the messages themselves during a communication session.

In certain embodiments the location information may be displayed as text rather than as a location on a map. For example the location may appear as an address or any portion thereof as an intersection and or as geographic coordinates. As another example the location may appear as the name of a building place of business and or any other landmark. These names may be determined for example by comparing geographic position with a database of buildings business and or landmarks stored in a social networking system a third party service and or in any other suitable system. The textual location information may appear in a dedicated position on the screen distinct from an area designated for the other communications between User and User . The position of the textual location information on GUIs may be configurable by User and or User through options specified in a client application localized to a client device and or stored in a social networking system or other third party service. As another example the textual location information may appear directly in the textual communication stream that contains the other communications between User and User . In some embodiments the location of the transmitting device may be depicted both graphically and textually at the same time.

Particular embodiments may repeat the steps of the method of where appropriate. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the method of as occurring in a particular order this disclosure contemplates any suitable steps of the method of occurring in any suitable order and or in parallel. For example the request to provide location information may occur at step before a communication session is established at step . Furthermore although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components devices or systems carrying out particular steps of the method of this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components devices or systems carrying out any suitable steps of the method of . Additionally the method may include more fewer or different steps. For example at step client devices may be removed as well as added depending on the choices of the participating users. Removed client devices may not receive the updated location information.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCIe bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Herein a computer readable non transitory storage medium or media may include one or more semiconductor based or other integrated circuits ICs such as for example field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or application specific ICs ASICs hard disk drives HDDs hybrid hard drives HHDs optical discs optical disc drives ODDs magneto optical discs magneto optical drives floppy diskettes floppy disk drives FDDs magnetic tapes solid state drives SSDs RAM drives SECURE DIGITAL cards or drives any other suitable computer readable non transitory storage media or any suitable combination of two or more of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

The scope of this disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. The scope of this disclosure is not limited to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular components elements functions operations or steps any of these embodiments may include any combination or permutation of any of the components elements functions operations or steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

