---

title: Systems and methods for determining image safety
abstract: Systems and methods are provided for determining the safety of an image, which may be used to determine whether an image is appropriate for a given purpose or for use in a given context. Determining the safety of the image may include analyzing the image to determine the amount of skin exposed in various key body areas of each human represented in the image, such as a photograph.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09355406&OS=09355406&RS=09355406
owner: GumGum, Inc.
number: 09355406
owner_city: Santa Monica
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140304
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 847 940 filed on Jul. 18 2013 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Much research has been devoted to the automatic detection of objectionable imagery. A common focus of such research is detection of pornographic images through the use of certain image analysis techniques such as support vector machines shape region techniques or pixel based detection. Typically these techniques are particularly tuned to the specific use case of pornographic images. For example the goal of many systems developed based on such techniques is to identify pornographic images from among images available from a network resource present on a webpage or submitted to a data store or service. Typically systems that are designed to identify pornographic images are not well suited to detect other types of images that are not necessarily pornographic but that may be objectionable to a certain audience or for a certain use or purpose.

Much research has been devoted to the automatic detection of objectionable imagery. In those situations where image safety is directly tied to revenues the minimization of false alarms rates is of primary importance. Skin detection algorithms that seek to classify images as being safe or unsafe based upon a priori skin content thresholds have been found to have unacceptably high false alarm rates in classifying images as being objectionable. While improved trained classifiers have been introduced which provide good results they require large training sets and great care must be exercised in the selection of the classification parameters in order to provide the best performance. Aspects of the present disclosure relate to a system that utilizes heuristics based on anthropometry to create a robust system for determining image safety with very low false alarm rates. The meaning of a safe image as used herein may generally refer to an image that is not likely to be considered objectionable for or that is considered appropriate for a given audience a given use and or a given context. For example aspects of the present disclosure relate to systems and methods for analyzing image data to determine whether a given image is appropriate for a given use such as to be viewed by a child to be used for a given advertisement to be displayed in a given location and or other uses potentially desired by a publisher advertiser and or other individual entity or system.

Generally described aspects of the present disclosure relate to systems and methods for heuristically based automated image safety determinations. In some embodiments image safety determinations may be utilized to pair advertisements with contextually relevant images. For example if an image is determined to be safe for a given advertising campaign an advertisement or other marketing message may be placed within the image overlaid over the image placed near the image on a page or be otherwise associated with the image. Advertisers may be sensitive not only to the topical content of the images they use but whether those images are considered by the advertiser to be safe. In addition aspects of the present disclosure may be implemented in whole or in part to expand avenues for revenue generation that utilize image features such as adding a moustache to digital images or otherwise altering an image in association with an advertisement a user request and or for another purpose. In order to determine appropriate and or desirable monetization techniques for a given image or library of images it would be beneficial to discover and retain as much information as possible regarding each image.

Determining image safety has generally concentrated on the detection of pornography through the use of for example certain support vector machines shape region techniques and pixel based detection. While these techniques have been shown to be at least somewhat effective for certain purposes they have generally been developed with a goal of detecting pornographic images. Because pornographic images as a type of target imagery is deemed extremely unsafe the probability of a Type error is often allowed to rise in order to provide the lowest possible Type error. Accordingly such techniques are not well suited for applications in which a high level of accuracy is desired in order to minimize both false positives and false negatives. In addition many known techniques are particularly tuned to detect pornographic images an image type which is generally associated with a widely accepted definition of image safety. Such techniques do not lend themselves well to analyzing image types for which a flexible and or context specific notion of image safety is to be applied.

In some instances in order to be suitable for purposes of image safety analysis for in image advertising or a variety of other potential uses the definition of an unsafe image in a given embodiment may be broadened to include those images which are unacceptable to one or more client advertisers such as being in violation of certain criteria or rules associated with an advertiser and or those images which might be deemed inappropriate due to specific marketed viewers such as a viewers of a given age geography or other demographic element . For example a specific ad for children s toys might be deemed safe to select for display in association with an image of a woman wearing a bikini bathing suit but not an image of a woman wearing bra and panties. Similarly an ad for a travel service to a Muslim country might be deemed unsafe to display in associated with an image of a woman with any skin exposure other than the face. In addition these thresholds of safety or safety rules might vary from one client to the next in some cases even within the same product target.

Aspects of the present disclosure may allow for simple and rapid definitions of image safety or video safety that may be tailored by or based at least in part on input from or information associated with an administrator advertiser publisher or other user and or based on an intended use of the image s or video s subsequent to performing the image safety analysis. Additionally a computing system as described herein may determine and retain anthropometric and or feature data for possible further image data exploitation such as advertising use of the image modifications to the image use of the image in a given context or environment cataloging or labeling the image and or other use. While the example of still images is often used herein the image analysis and other features described herein in some embodiments may be equally applied to moving imagery or video data. In some embodiments various media or content such as a game webpage or user interface may be classified as safe or unsafe based at least in part on analysis of image data or other visual data included therein or associated therewith.

At block in the illustrative method the image analysis module determines or identifies the pixels or other portions of the image that likely correspond to human skin of a subject in the image such as a photographed human model . For example according to one embodiment the entire target image T with center X Y is searched to find all pixels corresponding to skin. This skin detection may be conducted utilizing any of a variety of methods for detecting skin. As an example in some embodiments skin detection may be conducted utilizing a facial skin color model based at least in part on the RGB H CbCr Skin Colour Model for Human Face Detection developed by Abdul Rahman Wei and See. This skin model although targeted at the detection of faces performs well in detecting body skin. This body area detection while considered undesirable in the face detection context for which the Rahman model was originally developed is well suited for aspects of the image safety system disclosed herein.

The Abdul Rahman Wei and See skin color model consists of three rules referred to below as Rule A Rule B and Rule C which must all return TRUE for a given pixel in order for the pixel to be declared skin. In other embodiments the model may be modified to include more or fewer rules and or may not require that every rule be fulfilled in order for a given pixel to be declared skin.

Two rules are defined to model skin in the RGB color space. One for skin under uniform daylight given as 95 AND 40 AND 20 AND max min15 AND 15 AND AND 1 and the second for skin under flash or daylight lateral lighting given by 220 AND 210 AND 170 AND 15 AND AND 2 

In one embodiment a logical OR is then used to combine rule 1 and rule 2 . This RGB rule is denoted as Rule A.

Next 5 bounding rules enclosing the Cb Cr color region may be formulated as below 1.5862 20 3 0.3448 76.2069 4 4.5652 234.5652 5 1.15 301.75 6 2.2857 432.85 7 

A logical OR may then be used to combine rules 8 and 9 . This HSV rule is denoted as Rule C. Rule Equation 1 Equation 2 10 Rule Equation 3 Equation 4 Equation 5 Equation 6 Equation 7 11 Rule Equation 8 Equation 9 12 

In this embodiment each pixel that fulfills Rule A Rule B and Rule C is classified as a skin pixel Rule Rule Rule 13 

In some embodiments the image analysis module may further process the image based on the skin analysis in order to segment skin regions and or fill holes in regions. According to other embodiments beyond the classification of each image pixel as skin or not skin or an indication of the likelihood or confidence that a given pixel corresponds to skin no further processing is performed to segment the skin regions or to fill holes in regions as represented in according to one embodiment . Skin related data statistics may be generated and stored by the image analysis module such as one or more of the following.

The area of the skin may be defined as the zeroth spatial moment of the skin mass M 0 0 and the skin pixel density D of the skin given by

Finally the convex hull of the skin pixels may be determined and a standard linear least squares fit to the convex hull in order to create a best fit line to the skin area as represented in according to one embodiment .

According to some embodiments once one or more of the above data have been generated or determined an early threshold may be applied to determine if the percentage of skin in the image is too small to allow for a discernible human body and or if the skin pixel density is so low that no human form is likely to exist in the image. According to one embodiment the lower bound of skin percentage for declaring that a human form might be possible may be 0.095 and a density value of 0.12 may be used as the lower bound on skin pixel density. In some embodiments if the target image is found to be below either of these values the image is determined by the image analysis module to be safe due to it most likely being non human and no further processing is performed in some such embodiments.

In some embodiments the image analysis module may utilize one or more texture analysis techniques when determining skin areas. For example the texture value of an area of an image may be determined and then used to segment the image into areas of similar texture. A determination of a texture value corresponding to skin in an image may be made and this texture value may be used to segment an image into areas of skin and not skin. Similarly a determination of texture value may be used to classify an image area as hair a specific clothing fabric and or other texture.

At block in the illustrative method the image may be analyzed to detect and identify the location within the image of one or more faces or other reference body parts. While the illustrative method will be described below with reference to embodiments in which a face is used as the anchor or reference body part located at block one or more other body parts may alternatively or additionally be located and used as the anchor or reference body part in other embodiments. A reference body part may generally be considered a body part which may serve as an initial landmark for the location of other body parts. Reference body parts which may serve as an initial landmark include but are not limited to a face one or more eyes one or more ears nose mouth head one or more hands one or more feet navel one or more breasts one or more fingers one or more toes one or more shoulders one or more wrists one or more buttocks one or more knees one or more nipples genitals crotch area waist one or more hips neck midline of the back and or one or more elbows.

According to some embodiments if the percentage of skin and the skin density indicate a possible human form one or more facial classifiers may be implemented by the image analysis module. For example according to one embodiment a facial classifier such as that defined by Viola and Jones described in may be utilized to detect all faces within the image. In some embodiments a frontal face classifier such as for example a face detector similar to that described by Rainer Lienhart et al. which utilizes the Gentle AdaBoost algorithm and or a profile face classifier such as for example the 20 20 profile face detector developed by David Bradley may be utilized to detect face candidates. According to one embodiment face detections that exceed a given skin pixel threshold such as 0.13 or other value are determined to be a candidate face. In some embodiments as each face candidate is discovered duplicate faces may be removed. Removal may be accomplished by a simple region overlapping test as one example. Given a set of n rectangular regions R R R . . . R with rectangular region Rhaving a center given by m m width given by wand height given by w and a candidate region R the system may declare Rto be a duplicate if 18 

In some embodiments frontal faces may be detected first followed by profile faces as the probability of detection of faces in three quarters profile by the frontal detector exceeds the probability of detection by the profile detector. The order of detection may be specific to the choice of detectors implemented in a given embodiment and may differ among embodiments that utilize different detectors. Accordingly it will be appreciated that the specific ordering of detection and or the number of facial detector s employed by the image analysis module varies depending on the embodiment.

Once the set of one or more detected faces F R R . . . R has been formed from the set of candidate facial regions R a set of one or more facial feature detectors may be implemented by the analysis module to determine the location of one or more eyes noses mouths and or other facial features within each facial region R as represented in according to one embodiment . A variety of different facial feature detectors that are known in the art may be employed in some embodiments. For example a different facial feature detection method may be utilized for identifying each of a mouth eyes a nose and or other facial features.

In some embodiments each feature detector may analyze only the image data contained within the facial region of interest R. As each feature set with eye region detections E N M j k m I a set of heuristics based on anthropometric data may be utilized to assemble complete faces and rejecting false alarms for each feature. In particular because of the various expressions which can be made with the human mouth it is often confused for an eye by mouth detectors and vice versa. It is known for example that a pair of eyes cannot be located below a nose or mouth except if a person is upside down in which case a frontal face detector will not have made a detection. The analysis module may base its facial feature detection at least in part on anthropometric data from the United States Department of Defense and or other sources and or based on fundamental anatomy. For example an upright or tilted and or rotated head position may rule out the location of the mouth at the top of the face even in the presence of no other feature detections.

At block in the illustrative method the image analysis module determines key body areas in the image. Depending on the embodiment key body areas may include one or more of hair chest area face area midriff area crotch area one or more buttocks buttock area one or more arms one or more legs one or more hands one or more feet torso one or more shoulders one or more eyes one or more ears nose mouth neck waist one or more hips one or more thighs and or other distinct regions anatomical features or set of features. In some embodiments the set of detected faces F is utilized to generate a set of probable search rectangles S centered at m m m with width w height hand rotation angle for body location. Sample search rectangles are represented in according to one embodiment.

Key body areas may be determined in some embodiments based at least in part on anthropometric measurement of the image. Anthropometric measurements may be generated based at least in part on published anthropometric studies novel physical measurements probabilistic determination applied to a plurality of existing imagery photogrammetric determination applied to a plurality of existing imagery and or other methods. In some embodiments anthropometric data may be used to generate a set of heuristics for these search rectangles such as in the following manner calculate centered at 1.5 2.0 90.

In some embodiments the system may determine the skin pixels utilizing equation 13 and determine the image moments of these pixels utilizing equation 15 then calculate the least squares linear fit to the convex hull and its angle . If and then 90 1.5 3.0 H1 If and and 1.5 3.0 and calculate as angle from to H2 If and and 1.5 3.0 . H3 If then calculate centered at 1.5 2.0 . H4 

Once the angle has been determined one or more body area rectangles Bmay be generated by the analysis module which may correspond to the key body areas to be identified in a given embodiment. For example in the embodiment represented in three key body area rectangles are determined specifically B chest area B midriff area and B crotch area. According to one embodiment Bmay be centered at b b b with height h width wand rotation angle . b b may be calculated as square root over square root over where 95percentile distance from face to chest 19 where 95percentile face height a scale factor 20 where 95percentile face width a scale factor 21 tan 22 square root over square root over where 95percentile distance from face to midriff 23 where 95percentile face height a scale factor 24 25 where 95percentile face width a scale factor 26 square root over square root over where 95percentile distance from face to crotch 27 where 95percentile face height a scale 28 where 95percentile face width a scale factor 29 30 

Key body areas may be determined based at least in part on one or more of shape relative mathematical area anthropometric measurements and or probabilistic detection utilizing one or more machine vision learning algorithms. The key body area determination may include determining key body area location in an image key body area measurements in an image key body area skin percentage key body area orientation in an image key body area skin density key body area color and or key body area affine hull.

In some embodiments individual key body area scores and or other key body area determinations may be stored by the image analysis module in a storage device such as mass storage device discussed below may be made available for processing by a computer program and or may be presented to a human for a decision such as via one or more user interfaces. Individual key body area scores and or other determinations may be made available to a computer program to present the individual key body area scores to a human for a decision. The decision of the human may be to determine if one or more of a plurality of images may be used for a purpose such as for use in association with an advertisement. According to some embodiments as further discussed below the image analysis module may determine based at least in part on the individual key body area scores a clothing style clothing color clothing fabric and or an amount of body area covered by clothing in the image.

In some embodiments the image analysis module may alter the image based at least in part on the determined key body area data. Alterations of the image may include for example censoring the image by blurring out or overlaying content on portions of key body areas that include a high percentage of skin exposure. Alterations of the image may additionally or alternatively include overlaying or otherwise incorporating image content within the image in order to give the appearance that a human subject in the image is wearing certain clothing or accessories has body hair facial hair skin coloring or tattoos not present in the original received image and or other image changes.

At block in the illustrative method an amount of skin may be determined within the key body areas. For example at each key body search area the percentage of skin pixels i 1 2 3 may be calculated. For example equation 13 as discussed above may be applied to each pixel within each key body area in order to determine the percentage of pixels within the key body area that correspond to exposed skin. In other embodiments as discussed above skin determinations may be made based at least in part on texture analysis. A key body area score may be determined for each key body area based at least in part on the skin area percentage in the key body area. In some embodiments the key body area score may be based at least in part on a comparison of the determined skin percentage to one or more predetermined thresholds or bands which may have been previously determined based on acceptable standards and or averages of skin exposure present in specific body areas across a number of different images.

At block an overall image safety score safety level or other safety result may be determined. The image safety score may be determined in some embodiments by combining the key body area scores which may have been determined at block to produce an overall safety score for the image. The key body area scores for one or more specific key body areas may be weighted higher than others in generating the overall safety score. For example according to one embodiment the key body area score corresponding to the chest area and buttock area may be given a greater weight than the midriff area. In some embodiments safety may be determined by a changeable set of heuristics that determine the state of clothing as shown in Table 1. The clothing state in some embodiments may be the logical AND of the key body areas 31 

A single safety score or unsafe score depending on the embodiment may be stored in a storage device made available for processing by a computer program and or made available to a human for a decision. The decision of the human may be to determine if one or more of a plurality of images may be used for a purpose. In some embodiments the image analysis module may store or present all or a subset of the feature and image parameters determined above to allow for downstream image data exploitation.

In some embodiments determining the overall image safety may include determining a Boolean value representing that the image is either safe or unsafe for a given purpose or according to a given heuristic or rule set. In some embodiments this value may be based at least in part on a determination of the type of clothing being worn in the image for example a determination that a bikini is being worn by a human model in the image . In some embodiments an overall safety score may be compared to an acceptable risk threshold or safety threshold that is specific to a given advertising campaign or other intended potential use of the image. For example a much stricter safety threshold may be employed when the determination is whether an image is safe for use on a children s website or for advertising a children s product than when the determination is whether an image is safe for use on a sports website or for advertising sporting goods . The given thresholds heuristics or rules employed by the image analysis module in a given instance according to some embodiments may depend at least in part on a given advertiser interested in placing an advertisement on or near the image a publisher that hosts the image on a page a rights holder associated with the image a specific viewing user a country or region associated with the given potential user and or other factors.

A set of 11 621 random images from the Internet were inspected manually and classified as safe if clothing state clothed or no human form unknown if clothing state lowcut or bikini or bra panties or bikini top or bra and unsafe if clothing state Naked or Topless or naked or very skimpy or no pants or panties or microbikini . 9483 were deemed safe 202 were deemed unsafe and 1694 were deemed unknown. A computing system similar to that described herein correctly classified 9453 safe images as safe and classified 30 safe images as unsafe. The computing system correctly classified 1581 images as unknown and classified 113 unknown images as unsafe. The computing system correctly classified 192 unsafe images as unsafe and classified 10 unsafe images as safe. The probability of false classification as an unsafe image was only 1.3 . Accordingly aspects of the present disclosure have been shown to provide an effective and flexible framework for determining image safety. Aspects of the present disclosure allow for a variable definition of safety and provide a significant amount of image derived data to allow for future exploitation.

In some embodiments the system may be expanded to include texture analysis to provide for a more accurate clothing estimate. In addition an application programming interface API and or interface may be provided for defining safety based at least in part on key body areas and or other factors.

Potential downstream use of images videos or other analyzed content based on the safety determinations made by the image analysis module may vary depending on the specific embodiment. It will be appreciated that the flexible approach to image safety described herein may enable aspects of the disclosure to be implemented in a wide variety of contexts and with respect to a wide range of types of images or other content. Example determinations or downstream use of one or more aspects of the disclosure such as image safety scores clothing states and or others include but are not limited to determining whether to place an advertisement on an image or near an image determining whether an advertisement that includes a photo or drawing of a human figure is appropriate to display on a given page or in a given location determining whether a user submitted photo or other image is appropriate for adding to a social network image library or other repository or system ranking or scoring the safety of a webpage website application movie image library or other data source based on collective analysis of a variety of images included in or associated with the data source filtering pages image search results or other content to remove or censor potentially unsafe images prior to a server sending the images page or other content to a user and or filtering or blocking unsafe images on a client device such as via a plugin or specialized browser executed by a client device such as client system discussed below which may be installed by a parent to limit content access by children or installed by an employer to limit employee access to network content.

In some embodiments the systems computer clients and or servers described above take the form of a computing system as shown in . is a block diagram showing an embodiment in which computing system is in communication with a network and various systems are also in communication with the network . The computing system may be used to implement systems and methods described herein. For example the computing system may be configured to analyze images to determine safety of the images determine if an image is appropriate for a given purpose and or any other functionality described above. In some embodiments the system is accessed remotely by the client the system is local to the client and or a combination of the two.

The computing system includes for example a personal computer that is IBM Macintosh or Linux Unix compatible. In one embodiment the computing system comprises a server a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a mobile phone a personal digital assistant a kiosk or an audio player for example. In one embodiment the exemplary computing system includes a central processing unit CPU which may include a conventional microprocessor. The computing system further includes a memory such as random access memory RAM for temporary storage of information and a read only memory ROM for permanent storage of information and a mass storage device such as a hard drive diskette or optical media storage device. Typically the modules of the computing system are connected to the computer using a standard based bus system. In different embodiments the standard based bus system could be Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Microchannel Small Computer System Interface SCSI Industrial Standard Architecture ISA and Extended ISA EISA architectures for example. In addition the functionality provided for in the components and modules of computing system may be combined into fewer components and modules or further separated into additional components and modules.

The computing system is generally controlled and coordinated by operating system software such as Windows 95 Windows 98 Windows NT Windows 2000 Windows XP Windows Vista Windows 7 Windows 8 Unix Linux SunOS Solaris Maemeo MeeGo BlackBerry Tablet OS Android webOS Sugar Symbian OS MAC OS X iOS or other operating system s . In Macintosh systems the operating system may be any available operating system such as MAC OS X. In other embodiments the computing system may be controlled by a proprietary operating system. Conventional operating systems control and schedule computer processes for execution perform memory management provide file system networking I O services and provide a user interface such as a graphical user interface GUI among other things.

The computing system includes one or more commonly available input output I O devices and interfaces such as a keyboard mouse touchpad and printer. In one embodiment the I O devices and interfaces include one or more display device such as a monitor that allows the visual presentation of data to a user. More particularly a display device provides for the presentation of GUIs application software data and multimedia presentations for example. The computing system may also include one or more multimedia devices such as speakers video cards graphics accelerators and microphones for example.

In the embodiment of the I O devices and interfaces provide a communication interface to various external devices. In the embodiment of the computing system is electronically coupled to a network which comprises one or more of a LAN WAN the Internet or cloud computing for example via a wired wireless or combination of wired and wireless communication link . The network communicates with various computing devices and or other electronic devices via wired or wireless communication links.

According to information may be provided to computing system over the network from one or more data sources including for example data source s . In addition the data sources may include one or more internal and or external data sources. In some embodiments one or more of the databases or data sources may be implemented using a relational database such as Sybase Oracle CodeBase and Microsoft SQL Server as well as other types of databases such as for example a flat file database an entity relationship database and object oriented database and or a record based database. In addition to supplying data a client may request information from the computing system .

In the embodiment of the computing system also includes an image analysis module which may be executed by the CPU . This module may include by way of example components such as software components object oriented software components class components and task components processes functions attributes procedures subroutines segments of program code drivers firmware microcode circuitry data databases data structures tables arrays and variables.

In the embodiment shown in the computing system is configured to execute the image analysis module among others in order to implement various aspects of the present disclosure as described above. In some embodiments the image analysis module may be configured to obtain data from data source s which may include image files various rule sets advertisement data image classification data and or other information.

In general the word module as used herein refers to logic embodied in hardware or firmware or to a collection of software instructions possibly having entry and exit points written in a programming language such as for example Java Lua C or C . A software module may be compiled and linked into an executable program installed in a dynamic link library or may be written in an interpreted programming language such as for example BASIC Perl or Python. It will be appreciated that software modules may be callable from other modules or from themselves and or may be invoked in response to detected events or interrupts. Software instructions may be embedded in firmware such as an EPROM. It will be further appreciated that hardware modules may be comprised of connected logic units such as gates and flip flops and or may be comprised of programmable units such as programmable gate arrays or processors. It will be appreciated that in some embodiments one or more modules described herein may be stored as computer executable instructions in various forms of non transitory computer readable media. The modules described herein are preferably implemented as software modules but may be represented in hardware or firmware. Generally the modules described herein refer to logical modules that may be combined with other modules or divided into sub modules despite their physical organization or storage.

All of the methods described herein may be embodied in and partially or fully automated via software code modules executed by one or more general purpose computers. The methods may be executed on the computing devices in response to execution of software instructions or other executable code read from a tangible computer readable medium. A tangible computer readable medium is a data storage device that can store data that is readable by a computer system. Examples of computer readable mediums include read only memory random access memory other volatile or non volatile memory devices CD ROMs magnetic tape flash drives and optical data storage devices.

In addition embodiments may be implemented as computer executable instructions stored in one or more tangible computer storage media. As will be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art such computer executable instructions stored in tangible computer storage media define specific functions to be performed by computer hardware such as computer processors. In general in such an implementation the computer executable instructions are loaded into memory accessible by at least one computer processor. The at least one computer processor then executes the instructions causing computer hardware to perform the specific functions defined by the computer executable instructions. As will be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art computer execution of computer executable instructions is equivalent to the performance of the same functions by electronic hardware that includes hardware circuits that are hardwired to perform the specific functions. As such while embodiments illustrated herein are typically implemented as some combination of computer hardware and computer executable instructions the embodiments illustrated herein could also be implemented as one or more electronic circuits hardwired to perform the specific functions illustrated herein.

The embodiments illustrated herein are illustrative rather than limiting. The invention is not limited to cover only the embodiments explicitly illustrated herein. Rather a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate in light of this disclosure that the various embodiments illustrate various features that can be mixed and matched by a skilled artisan in order to design a system with the particular feature set desired by the skilled artisan. All novel and non obvious inventions that would be apparent to a person of ordinary skill in the art in light of this disclosure are within the scope of the subject matter that may be claimed in subsequent non provisional applications. The various features tools systems and methods described herein may be used independently of one another or may be combined in various ways. All possible combinations and sub combinations are intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure. In addition certain method or process blocks may be omitted in some implementations. The methods and processes described herein are also not limited to any particular sequence and the blocks or states relating thereto can be performed in other sequences that are appropriate. For example described blocks or states may be performed in an order other than that specifically disclosed or multiple blocks or states may be combined in a single block or state. The example blocks or states may be performed in serial in parallel or in some other manner. Blocks or states may be added to or removed from the disclosed example embodiments. The example systems and components described herein may be configured differently than described. For example elements may be added to removed from or rearranged compared to the disclosed example embodiments.

Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment. In addition the term or is sometimes used in its inclusive sense and not in its exclusive sense so that when used the term or means one some or all of the elements in the list.

