---

title: Platform for providing a social context to software applications
abstract: The present invention provides a system and method for providing a social context to software applications. According to one embodiment of the invention, a user of a social network authorizes access by an external software application to information available in the social network. At some time later, the user of the social network uses an application designed by a third-party software developer. The application contacts the social network provider for permission to access the information available in the social network. If access has been authorized, the application incorporates the information from the social network into its interaction with the user, providing a social context to the user's interaction with the application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09426157&OS=09426157&RS=09426157
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09426157
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140404
---
This application claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 893 559 titled Platform for Providing a Social Context to Software Applications filed on Aug. 15 2007 and is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 493 291 titled Systems and Methods for Dynamically Generating a Privacy Summary filed on Jul. 25 2006 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 906 961 titled Systems and Methods for Network Authentication filed on Mar. 13 2007. The disclosures of both of the above U.S. patent applications are incorporated by reference herein.

This invention relates to internet applications and particularly to using an internet based social network to provide a social context to a user s interaction with a third party software application.

Providers of internet based social networks currently allow third party software developers to develop applications that can interact with the social network. However the social networks provide only limited information and do not offer a social context to the application. That is a user of the third party application does not see what other users of the social network are doing or access information about other users of the social network that is not publicly available information.

There is no currently available platform that a third party developer of a software application may use to develop an application that draws a social context from information available in the social network.

The present invention provides a system and method for providing a social context to software applications. According to one embodiment of the invention a user of a social network may authorize access by an external software application to information available in the social network. When the user of the social network uses the external application the application contacts the social network provider for permission to access the information available in the social network. If access has been authorized the application incorporates the information from the social network into its interaction with the user providing a social context to the user s interaction with the application.

The present invention provides a platform for using a social network to provide a social context to a software application that is external to the social network such as an application developed by a third party developer rather than the social network provider and or which does not reside within the social network or social network provider. A social context comprises information that personalizes the interaction of a user with the software application.

A social network provider may offer access to a platform according to the present invention to a third party developer of a software application so that the developer may design an application that draws a social context from the social network. Such an application may then incorporate privacy controlled information about users of the social network allowing the user of the application to experience the social context provided by the social network provider.

For example a user of a social network may also wish to use a third party software application that displays book reviews. If the user has authorized the social network provider to provide information associated with the user in the social network to an external application then the user may access that information through the book review application. For example the user may use the application to find book reviews on that application created by people with whom he has established connections in the social network. If the social network normally collects its own data on books location or any other set of its own data accessible through the provided application programming interface the user may incorporate that data into his use of the third party application as well.

The social network provider may comprise any user or entity that provides social networking services for example communication services dating services or other services for social interaction. For example the social network provider may host a website that allows one or more users to communicate with one another via the website. In one instance the user A may communicate with the user B via a social networking website associated with the social network provider that offers the user an opportunity to connect or reconnect with one or more other users B N who attended for example the same university as the user A.

According to some embodiments a developer of an application may contact the social network provider and request an application key from the developer. The social network provider may review the developer s proposed application and approve interaction between the application and the social network. Review and approval may take any desired form for example they may require review by a person or they may be automatic.

The application may be any type of application so that for example those that display still or moving images those that play sounds such as music or speech those for financial management for calendaring or for any purpose are within the scope of the invention. The application may be written in any natural and or computer language or languages.

When a user A encounters the application and uses it in a way that requests access to information from the social network provider the social network provider checks to see whether the user of the application has provided authorization for access to the information by the application .

In some embodiments a user of a social network may authorize external use of information available in the social network over which he has control. For example the information may be associated with his user profile account userid a piece of unique user identification or any other data or data structure representing the user. Exemplary authorization methods include but are not limited to those in which 1 the user opens an infinite session with the social network as described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 906 961 titled Systems and Methods for Network Authentication filed on Mar. 13 2007 and 2 the user logs into the social network and through a checkbox menu or other display selects authorization settings for some or all of his information in the social network. Authorization may occur before or during the user s access to application and may persist indefinitely until altered by the user or by the social network provider . Alternatively for example the login process of the social network may start a clock that results in the expiration of the authorization after some time period after expiration a new authorization would be required. Thus the user of the application may be but need not be actively using the social network for instance through a window open on his computer s desktop while accessing information available in the social network through the application .

Information available in the social network for use with the application may be subject to privacy settings selected by the users of the social network as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 493 291 titled Systems and Methods for Dynamically Generating a Privacy Summary filed on Jul. 25 2006 . The privacy settings selections may be set either as a part of the authorization process described above or independently. In such a case the application should be designed to incorporate privacy controlled information about users of the social network into the interaction of user A with the application so that the privacy settings set by the user A in the social network are incorporated into the interactions of user A or other users with the application .

In an exemplary embodiment interaction between a user A and a social network provider comprises the authorization process described above in which user A authorizes the access of information about user A by the application . Interaction may optionally also comprise the selection of privacy settings by user A. Interaction comprises one or more instances of access of data in the social network by the application . For example an application that dynamically updates information from the social network will have frequent multiple interactions with the social network provider such interactions may be mediated or otherwise processed by one or more application processing interfaces as shown in . Interactions comprise authorizations privacy settings selections and or other information provided to the social network provider by one or more users B N which similarly control access to their information by the application .

The social network provider includes a user information database a verification module and an application programming interface and may optionally also include a privacy settings selections component . The user information database stores data associated with each user A N of the social network which may be accessible by a third party application under appropriate conditions. When a user A authorizes access to one or more external applications and or selects or updates privacy settings associated with his information the user information database updates the data associated with user A. Accordingly authorizations and privacy settings selections are stored in association with each user . Authorizations privacy settings selections and other user information may be stored modified added or otherwise embodied or captured in any storage medium.

The verification module verifies that the user A of an application attempting to access information from the social network has authorized use of that information as discussed herein.

The application programming interface communicates with the application over the network . The application communicates various types of information such as requests for information about user A requests for information about one or more users B N and optionally updates of information about user A to the social network provider through the application programming interface . Any type of application programming interface is within the scope of various embodiments.

Optionally a privacy settings selections component receives privacy settings selections from a user such as user A. The privacy settings selections component updates the user information database with the privacy settings selected by the user A.

Although the social network provider is described as being comprised of various components such as the user information database the verification module the application programming interface and the privacy settings selections component fewer or more components may comprise the social network provider and still fall within the scope of various embodiments.

The social network provider may provide any type of social network. That is a social network may comprise users grouped according to any type of category such as friends users living near each other and fellow alumni. The user may specify the networks and groupings and or the networks and groupings may be predetermined by the social network provider . Thus a user A may be related to a user N in various ways through the social network for example by being included with user N in a group of users living in the Boston area.

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. Thus the breadth and scope of a preferred embodiment should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments.

