---

title: Methods and improvements in UICC polling mechanism for UICC management
abstract: Systems and methods for handling an OPEN CHANNEL command from a universal integrated circuit card (UICC) of a mobile device are disclosed. In some implementations, a mobile device hosting a UICC receives, from the UICC, an initiation of an OPEN CHANNEL command with a uniform resource locator (URL) of a subscriber identity module over the air (SIMOTA) server. The mobile device signals for attempting to resolve the URL to an Internet Protocol (IP) address. Upon successfully resolving the URL to the IP address, the mobile device obtains the IP address associated with the SIMOTA server, connects to the SIMOTA server using the IP address, and returns a successful TERMINAL RESPONSE to the UICC. Upon failing to resolve the URL to the IP address, the mobile device returns an unsuccessful TERMINAL RESPONSE to the UICC.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09131032&OS=09131032&RS=09131032
owner: Cellco Partnership
number: 09131032
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140310
---
A mobile device for example a mobile phone or tablet computer may include a universal integrated circuit card UICC that is removable from the mobile device and associates the mobile device with a user account of a cellular carrier. The memory of the UICC may include cellular carrier software from the cellular carrier of the UICC which may be installed on the UICC during UICC manufacturing or activation with the cellular carrier and occasionally updated by the cellular carrier. According to some schemes the UICC stores an Internet Protocol IP address of a Subscriber Identity Module Over The Air SIMOTA server that is accessed by the mobile device for installing or updating the cellular carrier software. One drawback of these schemes is that the IP address of the SIMOTA server specified by the UICC may not correspond to the optimal SIMOTA server. For example this may be the case when the specified SIMOTA server is no longer operational offline overloaded geographically distant from the mobile device etc. As the foregoing illustrates a new approach for installing or updating cellular carrier software via a SIMOTA server may be desirable.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth by way of examples in order to provide a thorough understanding of the relevant teachings. However it should be apparent that the present teachings may be practiced without such details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and or circuitry have been described at a relatively high level without detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring aspects of the present teachings.

The subject technology provides techniques for handling an OPEN CHANNEL command from a universal integrated circuit card UICC of a mobile device. As used herein the phrase mobile device may encompass any mobile computing device terminal or user equipment for example a cellular phone smartphone or tablet computer. One standard setting institute in the telecommunications industry is the European Telecommunications Standards Institute ETSI . According to the March 2012 ETSI standard for Smart Cards Card Application Toolkit CAT Release 10 i.e. ETSI TS 102 223 V10.6.0 which is available at www.etsi.org deliver etsi ts 102200102299 102223 10.06.0060 ts102223v100600p.pdf accessed on Dec. 9 2013 and incorporated herein by reference a domain name service DNS resolver is implemented in the universal integrated circuit card UICC . This may lead to operational problems for creating a device triggered OPEN CHANNEL connection from the UICC to the Subscriber Identity Module Over The Air SIMOTA server. For example the DNS resolver implemented in the UICC may direct the mobile device to attempt to connect with a SIMOTA server that is no longer operational offline overloaded geographically distant from the mobile device etc.

The DNS resolver functionality may be implemented at a processor or a memory of the mobile device and not at the UICC. To this end the DNS resolver functionality may be eliminated from the UICC. As a result a UICC initiated connection may use a DNS resolver of the mobile device to an optimal SIMOTA server the optimal SIMOTA server being selected based on factors such as network connection speed server load etc. Such an embodiment may prevent or resolve current SIMOTA operational issues in which the UICC connects with an inactive SIMOTA server before connecting to the correct SIMOTA server. The UICC connection may be used for activation or polling of the mobile device or for handling an OPEN CHANNEL command from a UICC of the mobile device. In some cases no DNS server address may be stored in the UICC and or no SIMOTA server address may be stored in the UICC. In other words the UICC may lack DNS resolver functionality.

Some implementations of the subject technology may include the following modifications to the above referenced March 2012 ETSI standard for Smart Cards Card Application Toolkit CAT Release 10 i.e. ETSI TS 102 223 V10.6.0. A new bit may be added as part of TERMINAL PROFILE to indicate that the terminal mobile device may perform DNS resolution for UICC connection requests. The terminal profile of the mobile device may include bit s that indicate that the mobile device has a local DNS resolver capability. For example one bit of the terminal profile can be used to indicate that mobile device DNS resolver can be used for IPv4 Server address only. Another bit can be used to indicate local DNS resolver capability to resolve DNS name into IPv6 IPv4 Server IP address. Another TERMINAL PROFILE bit can be used to indicate that the mobile device has capability to support RFC 3484 for dual stack destination servers. The UICC connection requests may include OPEN CHANNEL requests with an indication to use the DNS resolver of the mobile device and include a destination address in a form of a uniform resource locator URL . The OPEN CHANNEL requests may be accepted by the mobile device. The destination address definition in ETSI TS 102 223 V10.6.0 Section 5.8 which in the March 2012 version does not include a URL may be modified to include the URL as a value. The modification of the destination address may be as set forth in Table 1 in which the address has a length of X bytes.

In addition a new type of address definition may be added to the above referenced March 2012 ETSI standard for Smart Cards Card Application Toolkit CAT Release 10 i.e. ETSI TS 102 223 V10.6.0. The new type of address definition may correspond to 87 URL IPv4 115 URL IPv6 or 117 URL IPv6v4 or any other value in place of 87 115 or 117. The UICC may use URL IPv6 when TERMINAL PROFILE indicates that local DNS resolver is capable of supporting DNS name resolution into an IPv6 IPv4 address. URL IPv4v6 type may in some but not all cases only be used if TERMINAL PROFILE indicates that the mobile device terminal is capable of supporting RFC 3484 for IP connection management for dual stack servers and prioritize IPv6 connections when destination server can support both IPv6 IPv4 IP addresses. This type of address may be acceptable only when UICC terminal interface transport level field in the OPEN CHANNEL request is set to Transmission Control Protocol TCP or User Datagram Protocol UDP . As an example coding of Type of address 87 Address simota.operator.com may mean that the UICC is looking for an IPv4 connection to simota.operator.com server. In this case the actual SIMOTA server IPv4 address may be returned in the TERMINAL RESPONSE. As another example Type of Address 117 Address simota.operator.com may mean that UICC may use an IPv4 or an IPv6 address of SIMOTA server and prefer the IPv6 address for dual stack IPv4 IPv6 SIMOTA servers. In this case TERMINAL RESPONSE may return the actual IP address used for connection to the SIMOTA server based on DNS responses.

When the URL type is received as the type of address the address field may be a URL of size length X as indicated in the length field. The UICC may send to the terminal mobile device an OPEN CHANNEL request with a destination address having the URL as its value. The terminal mobile device may convert the URL received in the OPEN CHANNEL request into a destination Internet Protocol IP address by using the DNS resolver of the mobile device. In this case the UICC relies on the DNS server address used in the mobile device and that is based on the DNS server configuration received during network connection used for serving the UICC traffic. Based on the URL address option used i.e. URL IPv4 URL IPv6 or URL IPv6v4 the DNS resolver may request the target server URL server address as IPv4 address IPv6 address or RFC 3484 based destination IP address of IPv6 as priority over IPv4. The mobile device may reject the OPEN CHANNEL request parameter of URL IPv6 or URL IPv4v6 if the network bearer IP address assigned to the mobile device is IPv4 only. When the mobile device IP address is IPv4 the IPv4 destination server address may be used for IP connection. The mobile device may use the DNS resolved destination address e.g. IP address to connect to the server before sending a TERMINAL RESPONSE to the UICC. As a result of resolving the URL to a destination IP address and then using the resolved destination IP address to connect to the server the mobile device is more likely to connect to an operational and faster server rather than a non operational or slower server.

When the mobile device issues a successful or an unsuccessful TERMINAL RESPONSE for an OPEN CHANNEL command the TERMINAL RESPONSE contains a Bearer description data object. When the mobile device returns a successful TERMINAL RESPONSE the Bearer description object may include an IP address type IPv4 or IPv6 and optionally provide a destination IP address IPv4 or IPv6 based on the IP address type used for SIMOTA server destination The modification of the Bearer description object may be defined in some examples as stated in Table 2 below 

Reference now is made in detail to the examples illustrated in the accompanying drawings and discussed below.

The network might be implemented as a network conforming to the code division multiple access CDMA IS 95 standard the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 wireless IP network standard the Evolution Data Optimized EVDO standard the Global System for Mobile GSM communication standard a time division multiple access TDMA standard or other standards used for public mobile wireless communications. The mobile device may be capable of voice telephone messaging and or data communications through the network . The mobile device may be a data only device e.g. a tablet computer capable of support messaging and or data communication through the network or a mobile phone capable of voice text and or data communication through the network .

The network may allow a user of the mobile device to initiate and receive telephone calls with other users of mobile device s as well as through the public switched telephone network PSTN . The network may offer a variety of data services via the Internet such as downloads web browsing email etc. The mobile device may receive e.g. via the network and execute applications written in various programming languages.

The network can be implemented by a number of interconnected networks. Hence the overall network may include a number of radio access networks RANs as well as regional ground networks interconnecting a number of RANs and a wide area network WAN interconnecting the regional ground networks to core network elements. A regional portion of the network may serve the mobile device and may include one or more RANs and a regional circuit and or packet switched network and associated signaling network facilities.

As shown the mobile device includes a processor a network interface a UICC and a software memory . The processor may include one or more processors which may be arranged in one or more processing units for example a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU etc. The network interface may include an interface for connecting to the network and may include the UICC for identifying an account having permission to access the network . The UICC may be Subscriber Identity Module SIM card and may identify the account by a mobile directory number MDN by an account number or by any other identifier. The UICC may include a memory and storage area to store configuration files and application software e.g. applets . Downloading information for example update s or modification s to the config files app software to the UICC may be supported via applications managed by the SIMOTA servers . or other trusted machines for example Trusted Service Manger TSM . The software memory may include one or more of a cache unit a storage unit a long term memory or a short term memory which stores data and or instructions. As shown the software memory stores a UICC device driver and a DNS resolver . The software memory may also store other application s or file s for example photograph s video s word processing file s email message s text message s etc.

The UICC device driver includes software instructions for the mobile device to interface with the UICC and control operation of the UICC . For example the UICC device driver may store software instructions for the mobile device to implement the process described below in conjunction with . The DNS resolver includes software instructions to resolve a URL to an IP address.

The SIMOTA server farm includes multiple SIMOTA servers . that store data and instructions for installing and updating information within the UICC such as the config files app software . The SIMOTA servers . may communicate with the mobile device and the UICC via the network .

According to some schemes the UICC of the mobile device stores an IP address of one or more of the SIMOTA servers . that are accessed by the mobile device for installing or updating the config files app software which is stored in the UICC . For example the UICC may store the IP addresses of SIMOTA servers . and .. However in some circumstances the connection of the mobile device with the SIMOTA servers . and . may not be optimal. For example the connection of the mobile device with the SIMOTA servers . and . may be slower that connection of the mobile device with other SIMOTA servers. This may be due to the servers . and . being temporarily not operational offline overloaded geographically distant from the mobile device etc. Geographic distance may be an issue because a mobile device may use fewer network resources and have a greater network speed when accessing a geographically proximate server than when accessing a geographically distant server. For example a mobile device in Connecticut may use fewer network resources and a greater network speed when accessing a server in New York City than when accessing a server in Los Angeles. In these circumstances connecting to a different SIMOTA server in the SIMOTA server farm such as for example SIMOTA server . which may be lightly loaded and or geographically proximate to the mobile device may be desirable. Under the existing schemes modifying the UICC to cause the mobile device to connect to the SIMOTA server . instead of one of the SIMOTA servers . or . may be cumbersome as such a modification would require notifying the UICC that its stored SIMOTA server IP address may be changed providing a new SIMOTA server IP address to the UICC and storing the new SIMOTA server IP address in the UICC . Thus the subject technology describes new techniques for dynamically determining access to SIMOTA server s for purposes of obtaining UICC updates related to the config files app software .

According to some implementations of the subject technology the processor of the mobile device receives a connection request requesting connection to the SIMOTA server farm for installing or updating content of the UICC for example the config files app software . The connection request may be initiated at the UICC and may include a URL of the SIMOTA server farm for example simota.xyz telephone company.com. The connection request may be an OPEN CHANNEL command from the UICC .

Upon receiving the connection request the processor may execute the connection request using DNS resolver and select IPv6 destination address IPv4 destination address based on DNS responses and destination address selection criteria for example as specified in RFC 3484 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The processor determines whether the mobile device is capable of resolving a URL to a routable IP address e.g. via the local DNS resolver and connecting to the SIMOTA server farm via the URL. For example a terminal profile of the mobile device indicates that the mobile device uses the DNS resolving capability of the mobile device e.g. the local DNS resolver for connection requests initiated at the UICC and that the mobile device is capable of resolving the URL to the routable IP address.

Based on URL type requested in OPEN CHANNEL the local DNS resolver of mobile device may send a DNS request to the DNS server to resolve DNS name e.g. simota.xyz telephone company.com to IP address for example as specified in RFC 1034 RFC 1035 both of which are incorporated herein by reference. If URL type of URL IPv6 or URL IPv4v6 is requested then mobile device and local DNS resolver may support IPv6 DNS Extensions for example as specified in RFC 1886 RFC 3596 RFC 4472 all of which are incorporated herein by reference. If the DNS server returns an IPv6 address for URL DNS name then the IPv6 server address may be used.

In either case the processor may use the IP address obtained from the DNS resolver to connect to the SIMOTA server .in the SIMOTA server farm . Using the established connection with the SIMOTA server . the SIMOTA server .installs or updates the config files app software in the UICC . In one implementation the UICC may store the resolved SIMOTA IP address into the UICC . In another implementation the UICC may not store the resolved IP address in the UICC and the IP address of the DNS server . Advantages of storing the resolved IP address include an alternative fallback mechanism when the URL based process of connecting to the SIMOTA fails. Advantages of not storing the resolved IP address include an opportunity to resolve the URL to an IP address of a different more efficient server each time access to the server is required.

Upon determining that the mobile device and the UICC are incapable of resolving the URL to the routable IP address the UICC connects to SIMOTA server .using a previously stored IP on the UICC . The previously stored IP address may correspond to an IP address of a specific SIMOTA server in the SIMOTA farm .

A destination address value of the OPEN CHANNEL command may indicate the URL of the SIMOTA server. The destination address value may include a first byte indicating an address tag a second byte indicating a length X of the address a third byte indicating a type of address and X 1 bytes indicating the address. The address type may be a URL type and the address may be the URL of the SIMOTA server. Examples of the destination address value are illustrated in Table 1 and Table 2.

Prior to step during mobile device initialization the mobile device may inform the UICC that the mobile device is capable of resolving URL s to IP address es . The mobile device may determine that the mobile device is capable of resolving the URL to the IP address based on an operating system application programming interface API of the mobile device. The operating system API may store an indication that the mobile device is capable of resolving URLs to IP addresses. For example if the mobile device has an Android operating system the Android API indicates that the mobile device is capable of resolving URLs to IP addresses. If the mobile device has an IOS operating system the IOS AIP indicates that the mobile device is capable of resolving URLs to IP addresses.

In step the mobile device attempts to resolve the URL to an IP address. For example the mobile device may access a DNS resolver e.g. DNS resolver at the mobile device and attempt via the DNS resolver to resolve the URL to an IP address. The DNS resolver may provide the URL to a DNS server e.g. DNS server and receive from the DNS server the IP address to which the URL resolves. If the mobile device succeeds at resolving the URL to the IP address the process continues to step . If the mobile device fails at resolving the URL to the IP address for example due to a failure or inaccessibility of the DNS resolver or the DNS server the process continues to step .

In step if the mobile device succeeds at resolving the URL to the IP address the mobile device obtains the IP address associated with the SIMOTA server e.g. SIMOTA server . . The IP address associated with the SIMOTA server may be obtained at the mobile device from the DNS resolver or the DNS server.

In step the mobile device connects to the SIMOTA server using the IP address. The mobile device returns a successful TERMINAL RESPONSE to the UICC. The successful TERMINAL RESPONSE may indicate to the UICC that the connection to the SIMOTA server using the URL was successful. The connection with the SIMOTA server may be used to update information stored by the UICC for example the one or more configuration files or the applet e.g. config files app software stored by UICC . After step the process ends.

In step if the mobile device fails at resolving the URL to the IP address the mobile device returns an unsuccessful TERMINAL RESPONSE to the UICC. The unsuccessful TERMINAL RESPONSE indicates to the UICC that the connection to the SIMOTA server using the URL was unsuccessful. In response the UICC may deal with the connection failure.

In step the mobile device may receive a new request from UICC. If the specific IP address of the SIMOTA server is stored in the UICC the new request may include a new OPEN CHANNEL command with the specific IP address of the SIMOTA server e.g. SIMOTA server . . Alternatively if the specific IP address of the SIMOTA server is not stored in the UICC the UICC may deal with the connection failure in another manner without providing a new OPEN CHANNEL command for example by reattempting to connect using the URL at a later time. After step the process ends.

For digital wireless communications the mobile device also includes at least one digital transceiver XCVR . As shown the transceiver is connected with the UICC via an interface. Alternatively the UICC may be internal to the transceiver . The UICC may correspond to the UICC shown in . The mobile device may be configured for digital wireless communications using one or more of the common network technology types. The concepts discussed here encompass embodiments of the mobile device utilizing any digital transceivers that conform to current or future developed digital wireless communication standards. The mobile device may also be capable of analog operation via a legacy network technology.

The transceiver provides two way wireless communication of information such as vocoded speech samples and or digital information in accordance with the technology of the network . The transceiver also sends and receives a variety of signaling messages in support of the various voice and data services provided via the mobile device and the communication network. Each transceiver connects through RF send and receive amplifiers not separately shown to an antenna . The transceiver may also support various types of mobile messaging services such as short message service SMS enhanced messaging service EMS and or multimedia messaging service MMS .

The mobile device includes a display for displaying messages menus or the like call related information dialed by the user calling party numbers etc. A keypad enables dialing digits for voice and or data calls as well as generating selection inputs for example as may be keyed in by the user based on a displayed menu or as a cursor control and selection of a highlighted item on a displayed screen. The display and keypad are the physical elements providing a textual or graphical user interface. Various combinations of the keypad display microphone and speaker may be used as the physical input output elements of the graphical user interface GUI for multimedia e.g. audio and or video communications. Of course other user interface elements may be used such as a trackball as in some types of PDAs or smart phones.

In addition to normal telephone and data communication related input output including message input and message display functions the user interface elements also may be used for display of menus and other information to the user and user input of selections including any needed during handling the OPEN CHANNEL command from the UICC of the mobile device.

A microprocessor serves as a programmable controller for the mobile device in that it controls all operations of the mobile device in accordance with programming that it executes for all normal operations and for operations involved in the handling the OPEN CHANNEL command from the UICC of the mobile device procedure under consideration here. In the example the mobile device includes flash type program memory for storage of various software or firmware program routines and mobile configuration settings such as mobile directory number MDN and or mobile identification number MIN etc. The flash type program memory stores programmed instructions for handling the OPEN CHANNEL command from the UICC of the mobile device as described herein. The mobile device may support new logic for using a DNS resolver of the mobile device for the purpose of processing OPEN CHANNEL command s from the UICC. The mobile device may also include a non volatile random access memory RAM for a working data processing memory. Of course other storage devices or configurations may be added to or substituted for those in the example. In a present implementation the flash type program memory stores firmware such as a boot routine device driver software an operating system call processing software and vocoder control software and any of a wide variety of other applications such as client browser software and short message service software. The memories also store various data such as telephone numbers and server addresses downloaded data such as multimedia content and various data input by the user. Programming stored in the flash type program memory sometimes referred to as firmware is loaded into and executed by the microprocessor .

As outlined above the mobile device includes a processor and programming stored in the flash memory configures the processor so that the mobile device is capable of performing various desired functions including in this case the functions involved in the technique for handling the OPEN CHANNEL command from the UICC of the mobile device.

For purposes of such a discussion provides a block diagram illustration of an exemplary touch screen type mobile device . Although possible configured somewhat differently at least logically a number of the elements of the exemplary touch screen type mobile device are similar to the elements of mobile device and are identified by like reference numbers in . For example the touch screen type mobile device includes a microphone speaker and vocoder for audio input and output functions much like in the earlier example. The mobile device also includes at least one digital transceiver XCVR for digital wireless communications although the mobile device may include an additional digital or analog transceiver. The concepts discussed here encompass embodiments of the mobile device utilizing any digital transceivers that conform to current or future developed digital wireless communication standards. As in the mobile device the transceiver provides two way wireless communication of information such as vocoded speech samples and or digital information in accordance with the technology of the network . The transceiver also sends and receives a variety of signaling messages in support of the various voice and data services provided via the mobile device and the network . Each transceiver connects through RF send and receive amplifiers not separately shown to an antenna . The transceiver may also support various types of mobile messaging services such as short message service SMS enhanced messaging service EMS and or multimedia messaging service MMS .

As in the example of the mobile device a microprocessor serves as a programmable controller for the mobile device in that it controls all operations of the mobile device in accordance with programming that it executes for all normal operations and for operations involved in the handling the OPEN CHANNEL command from the UICC of the mobile device procedure under consideration here. The mobile device may support new logic for using a DNS resolver of the mobile device for the purpose of processing OPEN CHANNEL command s from the UICC. In the example the mobile device includes flash type program memory for storage of various program routines and mobile configuration settings. The mobile device may also include a non volatile random access memory RAM for a working data processing memory. Of course other storage devices or configurations may be added to or substituted for those in the example. Hence outlined above the mobile device includes a processor and programming stored in the flash memory configures the processor so that the mobile device is capable of performing various desired functions including in this case the functions involved in the technique for handling the OPEN CHANNEL command from the UICC of the mobile device.

In the example of the user interface elements included a display and a keypad. The mobile device may have a limited number of key s but the user interface functions of the display and keypad are replaced by a touchscreen display arrangement. At a high level a touchscreen display is a device that displays information to a user and can detect occurrence and location of a touch on the area of the display. The touch may be an actual touch of the display device with a finger stylus or other object although at least some touchscreens can also sense when the object is in close proximity to the screen. Use of a touchscreen display as part of the user interface enables a user to interact directly with the information presented on the display.

Hence the exemplary mobile device includes a display which the microprocessor controls via a display driver to present visible outputs to the device user. The mobile device also includes a touch position sensor . The sensor is relatively transparent so that the user may view the information presented on the display . A sense circuit sensing signals from elements of the touch position sensor and detects occurrence and position of each touch of the screen formed by the display and sensor . The sense circuit provides touch position information to the microprocessor which can correlate that information to the information currently displayed via the display to determine the nature of user input via the screen.

The display and touch sensor and possibly one or more keys if included are the physical elements providing the textual and graphical user interface for the mobile device . The microphone and speaker may be used as user interface elements for audio input and output.

The structure and operation of the mobile devices and as outlined above were described to by way of example only.

In sum the subject technology provides techniques for handling an OPEN CHANNEL command from a universal integrated circuit card UICC of a mobile device. A mobile device hosting a UICC may receive from the UICC an initiation of an OPEN CHANNEL command with a uniform resource locator URL of a subscriber identity module over the air SIMOTA server. The mobile device may signal for attempting to resolve the URL to an Internet Protocol IP address. Upon successfully resolving the URL to the IP address the mobile device may obtain the IP address associated with the SIMOTA server connect to the SIMOTA server using the IP address and return a successful TERMINAL RESPONSE to the UICC. Upon failing to resolve the URL to the IP address the mobile device may return an unsuccessful TERMINAL RESPONSE to the UICC.

While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and or other examples it is understood that various modifications may be made therein and that the subject matter disclosed herein may be implemented in various forms and examples and that the teachings may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim any and all applications modifications and variations that fall within the true scope of the present teachings.

Unless otherwise stated all measurements values ratings positions magnitudes sizes and other specifications that are set forth in this specification including in the claims that follow are approximate not exact. They are intended to have a reasonable range that is consistent with the functions to which they relate and with what is customary in the art to which they pertain.

The scope of protection is limited solely by the claims that now follow. That scope is intended and should be interpreted to be as broad as is consistent with the ordinary meaning of the language that is used in the claims when interpreted in light of this specification and the prosecution history that follows and to encompass all structural and functional equivalents. Notwithstanding none of the claims are intended to embrace subject matter that fails to satisfy the requirement of Sections 101 102 or 103 of the Patent Act nor should they be interpreted in such a way. Any unintended embracement of such subject matter is hereby disclaimed.

Except as stated immediately above nothing that has been stated or illustrated is intended or should be interpreted to cause a dedication of any component step feature object benefit advantage or equivalent to the public regardless of whether it is or is not recited in the claims.

It will be understood that the terms and expressions used herein have the ordinary meaning as is accorded to such terms and expressions with respect to their corresponding respective areas of inquiry and study except where specific meanings have otherwise been set forth herein. Relational terms such as first and second and the like may be used solely to distinguish one entity or action from another without necessarily requiring or implying any actual such relationship or order between such entities or actions. The terms comprises comprising or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. An element proceeded by a or an does not without further constraints preclude the existence of additional identical elements in the process method article or apparatus that comprises the element.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in various embodiments for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separately claimed subject matter.

