---

title: HTTP header-based adaptable authentication mechanism
abstract: The disclosure is generally directed to systems and methods for HTTP header-based authentication. For example, the systems and methods include receiving, at a mobile platform server, a first request message from a client device, the first request message requesting to download an application from the mobile platform server, sending, to the client device, a first response message having a first authentication query within header portions of the first response message, receiving, at the mobile platform server, a second request message having first authentication credentials within header portions of the second request message, sending, to the client device, a second response message having a second authentication query within header portions of the second response message, receiving, at the mobile platform server first device, a third request message having second authentication credentials within header portions of the third request message, and sending, to the client device, the application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09641504&OS=09641504&RS=09641504
owner: SAP SE
number: 09641504
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20141215
---
The embodiments of the disclosure are generally directed to authentication techniques and in particular to HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP header based authentication mechanisms.

Today various application development tools have been introduced to facilitate in the development and maintenance of mobile software applications. For example SAP Walldorf Germany has developed one such enterprise mobility platform known as SMP SAP Mobile Platform . As a platform SMP may manage the entire life cycle of mobile applications for an enterprise including application development application deployment application execution application management and mobile device management. In addition such mobility platforms enable business analysts and developers to quickly develop and deploy mobile applications with specific business objectives and functionality.

In light of the ever increasing concern for data and device security a variety of authentication measures may be utilized for communications between client and server devices. For example a default authentication may be based upon a username and password combination entered on a login screen of a mobile application on a mobile device. In some instances a Secure Sockets Layer SSL certificate may be used to ensure that the client device is authorized and trusted.

For some mobile applications conventional authentication measures may be insufficient. For example an administrator may desire additional types of authentication on a deployed mobile application s security profile.

Existing application development tools fail to enable mobile application developers to provide flexible authentication mechanisms. Accordingly the inventors have identified a need for an improved system and method for authenticating mechanisms between a remote device and an application server.

Reference will now be made in detail to embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the embodiments. Wherever possible like reference numbers will be used for like elements.

The embodiments are generally directed to systems and methods for HTTP header based authentication. For example the systems and methods include receiving at a mobile platform server a first request message from a client device the first request message requesting to download an application from the mobile platform server sending to the client device a first response message having a first authentication query within header portions of the first response message receiving at the mobile platform server a second request message having first authentication credentials within header portions of the second request message sending to the client device a second response message having a second authentication query within header portions of the second response message receiving at the mobile platform server first device a third request message having second authentication credentials within header portions of the third request message and sending to the client device the application.

In another example the systems and methods include sending at the client device a first request message to a mobile platform server device the first request message requesting to download an application from the mobile platform server device receiving from the mobile platform server device a first response message having a first authentication query within header portions of the first response message generating at the client device a first user interface to prompt an end user for first authentication credentials sending at the client device a second request message having the first authentication credentials within header portions of the second request message receiving from the mobile platform server device a second response message having a second authentication query within header portions of the second response message generating at the client device a second user interface to prompt an end user for second authentication credentials sending at the client device a third request message having the second authentication credentials within header portions of the third request message and receiving from the second device the application.

One or more client devices such as client devices A B C may be accessible via an Internet connection and connected to a reverse proxy server server in a network demilitarized zone DMZ . Although not shown the DMZ and or corporate network may also include one or more load balancing servers. Client devices A B C may comprise a variety of devices which may include for example a mobile device e.g. mobile phone or a smartphone a personal computer a laptop a tablet or the like. Accordingly the various client device types may operate using variety operating systems e.g. Android iOS Linux Windows etc. . Although not shown the client device also may be a server device of another network in some instances.

Each of the client devices A B C is configured to transmit and receive respective HTTP communications with the mobile platform server . The respective HTTP communications may include one or more requests and one or more responses . In addition client devices A B C may be configured to download one or more applications from the mobile platform server . By interpreting the definitions of a downloaded application a client device may present a functioning mobile application to an end user.

The reverse proxy server is configured to transmit request s to an enterprise data system such as a mobile platform server in a corporate intranet backend network. Subsequently the reverse proxy server may receive response s from the mobile platform server . The response s may be transmitted from the reverse proxy server to the appropriate client device A B C.

In some instances a gateway not shown may be disposed between the reverse proxy server and the mobile platform server . The optional gateway may translate requests e.g. to proprietary protocols such as remote function call RFC . Here the gateway may translate responses e.g. using a proprietary protocol back to HTTP.

Mobile platform server may store one or more applications and or application updates collectively referred to as applications . For example applications may be managed by SAP Agentry Runtime as a component of mobile platform server. In addition the mobile platform server may include one or more credentials modules for authenticating request s from client devices A B C such as a request to download one or more applications . The mobile platform server may be configured to process the request s retrieve data and or perform data operations as an appropriate response to a request . In addition the mobile platform server may return response s for transmission back to the reverse proxy server . Lastly the mobile platform server may be a standalone platform or it may be integrated with other enterprise systems.

A development device may use development tools e.g. SAP Agentry Editor and OpenUI SDK to develop and deploy applications . A single application may be developed for a variety of operating environments host devices and or operating systems e.g. Android iOS Linux Windows etc. . Although the development device is illustrated within the corporate network the location of the deployment device is not so limited. For example the development device may be connected to the mobile platform server through an Internet connection.

Within mobile platform server credentials modules may authenticate request s from client devices A B C such as a request to download one or more applications . For example the credential modules may enable a variety of authentication techniques using HTTP headers. The credential modules may evaluate headers of a request e.g. most recent request to mobile platform server and generate HTTP headers within a response . In addition the credential modules may enable authentication schemes that require a series of HTTP requests. In some instances a request counter may be used to ensure that a predetermined number of authentication techniques have been used in respective HTTP requests. Of course if an authentication request fails a client device may be denied access to an application .

A variety of authentication schemes may be used in accordance with the various embodiments. Example authentication schemes include username and password combinations SSL certificates basic authentication Kerberos remote authentication dial in user service RADIUS open standard authorization OAuth security assertion markup language SAML or the like. The embodiments are not limited to any particular authentication mechanisms.

By using the various embodiments the functionality of a mobile platform e.g. SAP SMP may be extended. In addition to enabling customers to extend the appearance and functionality of a mobile application application developers including third party developers may provide enhanced interfaces for authentication. For example third party developers may write code to adopt one or more of the various authentication mechanisms. Using improved application programming interfaces API such developers may select one or more authentication mechanisms and the resulting applications may prompt end users for respective authentications credentials. The authentication information may be communicated within HTTP headers between client device and mobile platform server .

At the mobile platform server may receive a request message from a client device to download a mobile application . For example the client device may request an update to an already downloaded application or may begin an initial download.

At the mobile platform server may generate a response message that includes a first authentication query within the HTTP header of the response message. The response message may be transferred to the client device . Upon receipt of the response message the client device may analyze the header of the response message and may be configured to dynamically generate a user interface based on the first authentication query. For example the user interface may prompt the end user of the client device for information requested by the first authentication query.

Next at the mobile platform server may receive another request message including the first authentication credentials. Here the first authentication credentials may be transmitted within a header of an HTTP request message. Upon their receipt the credential modules of the mobile platform server may validate whether the first authentication credentials satisfy the first authentication query.

If the first received credentials satisfy the conditions stored within the credential modules the mobile platform server may generate another response that includes a second authentication query within the HTTP header of a response message. The response message may be transmitted to the client device . Here again the client device may be configured to generate another user interface based on the second authentication query. However if the first received credentials do not satisfy the conditions stored within the credential modules the client device may be either denied access to the requested application or may be re prompted for credential information from the end user for the first authentication query.

Next at the mobile platform server may receive another request message including the second authentication credentials. Here the second authentication credentials may be transmitted within a header of an HTTP request message. Upon their receipt the credential modules may validate whether the second received authentication satisfy the second authentication query.

At the credential modules may determine whether the second authentication credentials satisfy the second authentication query. If the second authentication credentials satisfy the conditions stored within the credential modules the mobile platform server may initiate transmission of the requested application to the client device at . Alternatively the mobile platform server may generate another response that includes yet another i.e. third fourth etc. authentication query within the HTTP header of the response.

Although the method illustrates two authentication queries the embodiments are not so limited and a plurality of authentication queries challenges may be used. Of course if the second or subsequently received credentials do not satisfy the conditions stored within the credential modules the client device may be denied access to the requested application or may be re prompted for credential information from the end user for the second or subsequent authentication query.

At the client device may transmit a request message to a mobile platform server soliciting the download of an application . For example the client device may request an update to an already downloaded application or may begin an initial download.

At the client device may receive a response message that includes a first authentication query within the HTTP header of a response message. At the client device may analyze the header of the response message and may be configured to dynamically generate a user interface based on the first authentication query. For example the user interface may prompt the end user of the client device for information requested by the first authentication query.

Next at the client device may transmit first authentication credentials to mobile platform server . Here the first authentication credentials may be transmitted within a header of an HTTP request message. The mobile platform server may validate whether the first authentication credentials satisfy the first authentication query. If the first authentication credentials satisfy the conditions stored within the credential modules the mobile platform server may generate another response that includes a second authentication query within the HTTP header of the response.

The second authentication query is received by the client device at . Here the client device may be configured to dynamically generate another user interface based on the second authentication query at . Next at the client device may transmit second authentication credentials to the mobile platform server . The second received credentials may be transmitted within a header of an HTTP request message.

The credential modules of the mobile platform server may determine whether the second authentication credentials satisfy the second authentication query. If the second authentication credentials satisfy the conditions stored within the credential modules the mobile platform server may initiate transmission of the requested application to the client device at . Alternatively the mobile platform server may generate another response that includes yet another authentication query within the HTTP header of the response. Although the method illustrates the receipt of two authentication queries the embodiments are not so limited and a plurality of authentication queries may be used.

Processing device may execute instructions of credential modules and other modules stored in memory . Memory may include a computer readable medium storing applications and credential modules . In an example embodiment memory may contain different components for retrieving presenting changing and saving data and may include computer readable media. Memory may include a variety of memory devices for example Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM Static RAM SRAM flash memory cache memory and other memory devices. Additionally for example memory and processing device s may be distributed across several different computers that collectively comprise a system. Memory may be capable of storing client and backend inputs.

Components of mobile platform server such as processing device memory and a communications device may be interconnected via a system bus. In various embodiments the mobile platform server may have an architecture with modular hardware and or software systems that include additional and or different systems communicating through one or more networks via communications device .

Communications device may enable connectivity between the processing devices in the mobile platform server and other systems by encoding data to be sent from the processing device to another system over a network and decoding data received from another system over the network for the processing device .

Processing device may perform computation and control functions of a system and comprises a suitable central processing unit CPU . Processing device may include a single integrated circuit such as a microprocessing device or may include any suitable number of integrated circuit devices and or circuit boards working in cooperation to accomplish the functions of a processing device. Processing device may execute computer programs such as object oriented computer programs within memory .

Although example credential modules are depicted as a single entity it is to be appreciated that credential modules may include fewer or more modules and components and may be integrated into a single system from the operation of independent systems and subsystems. For example the credential modules may operate as a standalone service which provides data to the mobile platform server . Further additional and different modules and other types of integration with the backend server and or the requesting client device may be provided.

Each of the client devices the reverse proxy server gateway mobile platform server and other processing components depicted in may be embodied individually or in combination in a computing device in the form of for example a personal computer a server computer a mobile computer or any other suitable computing device. In various embodiments the computing device may be used to implement computer programs logic applications methods processes or software to provide data transformation operations as described herein. Although mobile client scenarios are illustrated it will be understood that the applicability of the presently described data transformation techniques and components are not limited to mobile client scenarios. A variety of clients and client types including combinations of mobile and non mobile client types may be used.

With respect to the depicted system configurations depicted it should be appreciated that in other embodiments the systems and network configurations may include fewer or more components apart from those shown. For example in example embodiments the data services provided in the corporate intranet backend can be integrated within fewer or additional components. The components and respective modules may be in the form of software that is processed by a processor. In another example the components and respective modules may be in the form of firmware that is processed by application specific integrated circuits ASIC which may be integrated into a circuit board. The components and respective modules also may be in the form of one or more logic blocks included in a programmable logic device for example a field programmable gate array . The components and respective modules may be adapted and or additional structures may be provided to provide alternative or additional functionalities beyond those specifically discussed.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made in the systems and methods for HTTP header based authentication without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure. Thus it is intended that the present disclosure cover the modifications and variations of this disclosure provided they come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

