---

title: Mobile user interface for smart-home hazard detector configuration
abstract: System for displaying hazard events and adjusting hazard detector settings on a mobile device includes a user interface executed on the mobile device, a hazard detector, and a computer server system communicatively coupled to the mobile device and hazard detector. The hazard detector generates hazard events indicating detection of smoke or carbon monoxide. The hazard events are transmitted to the computer server system and then to the mobile device. User interface displays the hazard events in an event group. User interface receives an adjusted value for a setting of the hazard detector and transmits the adjusted value to the computer server system. The computer server system determines that the adjusted value corresponds to the hazard detector, receives a check-in event from the hazard detector, and transmits the adjusted value to the hazard detector in response to receiving the check-in event. The hazard detector applies the adjusted value to the setting.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09520054&OS=09520054&RS=09520054
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09520054
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141007
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 887 963 filed Oct. 7 2013 entitled HAZARD DETECTION IN A SMART SENSORED HOME and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 887 969 filed Oct. 7 2013 entitled USER FRIENDLY DETECTION UNIT the entire disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

The present invention generally relates to hazard detection. More specifically the present invention relates to a mobile user interface for network connected hazard detection units.

Hazard detectors use a variety of sensors to detect substances in the air that are harmful or indicate the development of a hazardous situation. For example carbon monoxide CO and radon gas are substances that can be harmful to humans and animals if exposed to high amounts. However these substances are difficult to detect with the human senses because they are colorless odorless and tasteless. A hazard detector can detect the presence of these substances and prevent the harmful effects of exposure by alarming a user. In other instances a substance such as smoke while not necessarily harmful in and of itself can indicate the development of a hazardous situation such as fire. An early alarm of the presence of such a substance can prevent the hazardous situation from developing or minimize the harmful effects of the situation.

Interconnected hazard detectors are detectors that are connected to a network enabling communication between the detectors or with a central control unit. This provides several advantages over standalone detectors including the ability to activate multiple alarms when a single detector is triggered.

In one embodiment a system for displaying hazard events on a mobile device remote from a detection location is presented. The system includes a hazard detector a computer server system and a user interface executed on the mobile device. The computer server system is communicatively coupled to the hazard detector and the mobile device.

The hazard detector is configured to detect a first hazard level that is greater than a first threshold. The first hazard level indicates an amount of smoke or carbon monoxide CO present at the hazard detector. A first hazard event is generated indicating the detection of the first hazard level and the hazard detector transmits the first hazard event to the computer server system via a wireless protocol. The hazard detector also detects a second hazard level that is greater than a second threshold generates a second hazard event indicating the detection of the second hazard level and transmits the second hazard event to the computer server system via the wireless protocol.

The computer server system is configured to store a plurality of accounts each account being associated with at least one hazard detector. The first hazard event is received and the computer server system determines that the hazard detector transmitted the first hazard event. The computer server system further determines that the hazard detector is associated with a first account and that the mobile device is authorized to access the first account. The first hazard event is transmitted to the mobile device. The second hazard event is received and the computer server system determines that the hazard detector transmitted the second hazard event. The computer server system transmits the second hazard event to the mobile device.

The user interface is configured to receive the first hazard event receive the second hazard event and display the first hazard event and the second hazard event in an event group. The event group indicates that the first hazard event and the second hazard event occurred in a chain of related events.

In another embodiment a method is presented for displaying hazard events on a mobile device remote from a detection location. The method includes establishing a first communication link between a hazard detector and a computer server system. The first communication link includes a wireless segment wherein data is transmitted and received via a wireless protocol. A second communication link is established between the mobile device and the computer server system. A hazard level greater than a threshold is detected the hazard level indicating an amount of smoke or CO present at the hazard detector. A light having a specific color is activated on the hazard detector. A hazard event is transmitted from the hazard detector to the computer server system via the first communication link. The hazard event indicates the detection of the hazard level. The hazard event is further transmitted from the computer server system to the mobile device via the second communication link. The specific color is displayed via a user interface executed on the mobile device.

In a further embodiment a non transitory computer readable medium is presented. The computer readable medium has instructions stored therein which when executed cause a computer to perform a set of operations. The set of operations include receiving a hazard event generated by a hazard detector. The hazard event indicates that the hazard detector detected a hazard level greater than a threshold the hazard level indicating an amount of smoke or CO present at the hazard detector. A status for the hazard detector is displayed including a link for the history of the hazard detector. User input selecting the link is received and a request for a history of events for the hazard detector is transmitted to a computer server system in response to receiving the user input. A plurality of historical events for the hazard detector is received as a response to the request. Each of the plurality of historical events includes a date and a time of when the historical event occurred. The plurality of historical events for the hazard detector including the date and time of each historical event is displayed.

In one embodiment a system for adjusting a setting of a hazard detector on a mobile device remote from the hazard detector is presented. The system includes a user interface executed on the mobile device a computer server system and the hazard detector. The computer server system is communicatively coupled to the mobile device and the hazard detector.

The user interface is configured to display a current value for the setting of the hazard detector. The current value indicates a value for the setting that is currently in effect on the hazard detector. The user interface receives user input indicating an adjustment to the setting the adjustment to change the setting from the current value to an adjusted value. The adjusted value is transmitted to the computer server system and a pending indicator is displayed for the setting indicating that the adjusted value is not in effect on the hazard detector. The user interface receives a signal from the computer server system indicating that the adjusted value is in effect on the hazard detector and the pending indicator is removed in response to receiving the signal.

The computer server system is configured to receive the adjusted value and determine that the adjusted value corresponds to the hazard detector. A check in event is received from the hazard detector and the adjusted value is transmitted to the hazard detector in response to receiving the check in event. The computer server system also transmits the signal indicating that the adjusted value is in effect to the mobile device.

The hazard detector is configured to detect smoke or CO. The hazard detector transmits the check in event to the computer server system after a time interval since transmitting a previous check in event. The adjusted value is received and the hazard detector applies the adjusted value to the setting.

In another embodiment a method for adjusting a setting of a hazard detector on a mobile device remote from the hazard detector is presented. The method includes displaying a list of settings for the hazard detector. The hazard detector is configured to detect smoke or CO. A first user input selecting the setting from the list of settings is received and a display area for the setting is expanded in response to receiving the first user input. The method further includes displaying a current value for the setting in the expanded display area. The current value indicates a value for the setting that is currently in effect on the hazard detector. A second user input indicating an adjustment to the setting is received the adjustment to change the setting from the current value to an adjusted value. The adjusted value is transmitted from the mobile device to the computer server system. A check in event is transmitted from the hazard detector to the computer server system after transmitting the adjusted value from the mobile device to the computer server system. The adjusted value is transmitted from the computer server system to the hazard detector after transmitting the check in event from the hazard detector to the computer server system. The adjusted value is applied to the setting on the hazard detector.

In a further embodiment a non transitory computer readable medium is presented. The computer readable medium has instructions stored therein which when executed cause a computer to perform a set of operations. The set of operations include displaying a list of settings for a hazard detector. The hazard detector is configured to detect smoke or CO. A first user input selecting a first setting from the list of settings is received and a first display area for the first setting is expanded in response to receiving the first user input. A first current value for the first setting is displayed in the expanded first display area. The first current value indicates a value for the first setting that is currently in effect on the hazard detector.

A second user input selecting a second setting from the list of settings is received. The first display area for the first setting is reduced and a second display area for the second setting is expanded in response to receiving the second user input. A second current value for the second setting is displayed in the expanded second display area. The second current value indicates a value for the second setting that is currently in effect on the hazard detector. A third user input indicating an adjustment to the second setting is received the adjustment to change the second setting from the second current value to an adjusted value. A pending indicator for the second setting is displayed indicating that the adjusted value is not in effect on the hazard detector. The adjusted value is transmitted to a computer server system. A signal is received from the computer server system indicating that the adjusted value for the second setting is in effect on the hazard detector and the pending indicator is removed in response to receiving the signal.

The ensuing description provides preferred exemplary embodiment s only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the disclosure. Rather the ensuing description of the preferred exemplary embodiment s will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing a preferred exemplary embodiment. It is understood that various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit and scope as set forth in the appended claims.

Interconnected hazard detectors are typically used in large buildings and complexes. In these environments the hazard detectors are connected to a central control unit. Some jurisdictions also require interconnected hazard detectors at home in which case the hazard detectors are connected to each other rather than a central control unit. The networking of hazard detectors in an interconnected system enables more effective automated responses. For example when a hazard detector is triggered a fire suppression system e.g. a sprinkler system at or near the triggered detector can be activated. In other instances all of the connected detectors can activate an alarm when a single detector is triggered or an alarm system can be activated to notify an entire building or complex of the hazardous situation.

However although interconnected hazard systems provide more effective responses compared to standalone hazard detectors there are still situations where even interconnected systems are not effective. For example if no one is home when a hazardous situation develops activating an alarm or even multiple alarms inside the home will not be an effective response for preventing property damage. Furthermore as hazard detectors become more advanced and new features are added it is inconvenient for users to press buttons on the hazard detector in order to adjust the settings of the features. This is especially true for smoke detectors since most smoke detectors are located high up on walls or ceilings and can be difficult for users to reach.

The embodiments of the invention described herein below overcome the disadvantages of the prior art by providing methods and systems for generating a user interface on a mobile device remote from a hazard detector. The hazard detector is triggered by the presence of a hazardous substance and generates a hazard event indicating the detection of the hazardous substance. The hazard event is transmitted to a computer server system. The computer sever system determines a mobile device associated with the triggered hazard detector and transmits the hazard event to the mobile device. A user interface is executed on the mobile device for displaying the hazard event. The user interface can also be used to adjust the settings of the hazard detector.

The depicted enclosure includes a plurality of rooms separated at least partly from each other via walls . The walls can include interior walls or exterior walls. Each room can further include a floor and a ceiling . Devices can be mounted on integrated with and or supported by a wall floor or ceiling . Further the smart home environment can include devices outside of the actual enclosure such as a pool heater or irrigation system.

The smart home environment includes a plurality of intelligent multi sensing network connected devices hereinafter referred to as the smart devices that can integrate seamlessly with each other and with a computer server system such as a cloud computing system. The smart devices can include smart thermostats smart hazard detectors smart entryway devices e.g. doorbells or intercoms smart wall switches smart wall plug interfaces and smart appliances such as refrigerators stoves and or ovens televisions washers dryers lights stereos intercom systems garage door openers floor fans ceiling fans wall air conditioners pool heaters irrigation systems security systems and so forth.

Any of the smart devices in the smart home environment can include any number of sensors. For example smart appliances can include sensors that detect when they are being used. Additionally a motion or occupancy sensor such as an ultrasonic passive infrared PIR or optical sensor can be included in any of the smart devices to detect user activity and movement. Some smart devices will also have sensors specific to the device. For example a smart light can include an ambient light sensor such as a photoresistor or a single pixel sensor that measures light in the room. Smart hazard detectors can include smoke fire heat sensors carbon monoxide dioxide sensors radon gas detectors ambient light sensors temperature sensors humidity sensors and the like. Any smart device can also include a processor for processing data from the sensors or other devices.

Each smart device is also equipped with communications ports or transceivers for communicating data with other smart devices. In one embodiment the devices establish a mesh network for communication between devices. In another embodiment the devices can connect via a router or gateway to a private network or the internet including any computer server system and computing device that is connected to the same network. Data can be transferred via any wireless e.g. Wi Fi ZigBee 6LoWPAN etc. or wired CAT6 Ethernet HomePlug etc. protocols.

By virtue of network connectivity one or more of the smart devices can further allow a user to interact with the device even if the user is not proximate to the device. For example a user can communicate with a device using a computer e.g. a desktop computer or mobile device e.g. a smartphone laptop computer or tablet . A webpage or native mobile app can be configured to receive input from the user and control the device based on the input. The webpage or mobile app can also present information about the device s operation to the user. For example the user can view the status of a smart hazard detector or a history of notifications generated by the smart hazard detector. The user can be in the enclosure during this remote communication or outside the enclosure.

The computer server system can further provide one or more services . The services can include customized hazard notifications software updates customer support sensor data collection logging remote access remote or distributed control or use suggestions e.g. based on collected home data to improve performance reduce utility cost etc. . To facilitate these services users can register the smart devices in their home or enclosure with the computer server system . Computer server system can associate the smart devices with an account during the registration process. The account can be user specific or specific to a home or enclosure that includes multiple users and a unique identification of each smart device can be stored in the account. In one embodiment the user s mobile device or other computing device can also be associated with the account during registration. In another embodiment one or more username and password is associated with the account during registration. The user can then use the username and password to log in on the mobile or computing device and computer server system can use the account to authorize the user s mobile or computing device for the services . Any identifying information can be used to log in and authorize users and their computing devices. For example the mobile or computing device can include a fingerprint scanner and the user logs in using their fingerprint. Data associated with the services such as account data can be stored at the computer server system .

System includes a processing engine which can be concentrated at a single server or distributed among several different computing entities without limitation. A single server can also include multiple engines for performing different processing tasks. The processing engine can receive data from smart devices index and store the data or process the data to generate customized notifications or statistics. The processed data can be stored as derived home data . Results of the processing can be transmitted back to the device that provided the home data to other devices to a server providing a webpage to a user of the device or to other non device entities. For example hazard events generated by smart hazard detectors can be received and processed by the processing engine before being transmitted to a user device via the Internet . In this manner the processing engine can be configured and programmed to derive a variety of useful information from the home data .

In some embodiments to encourage innovation and research and to increase products and services available to users system provides application programming interfaces APIs to third parties such as charities governmental entities e.g. emergency response units such as a fire department or police department the Food and Drug Administration or the Environmental Protection Agency academic institutions e.g. university researchers businesses e.g. security or fire monitoring service providers social network providers device warranty or equipment service providers or providers of targeted advertisements based on home data utility companies and other third parties. The APIs permit third party systems to communicate with the computer server system providing access to the services the processing engine the home data and the derived home data . This allows third party applications to submit specific data processing tasks to the computer server system and receive dynamic updates to the home data and the derived home data . For example a fire department or fire monitoring service provider can develop applications using the APIs to provide emergency response services to users.

In other embodiments the services can utilize third party APIs to communicate with third party applications. For example if a smart hazard detector is triggered a hazard event can be transmitted to an emergency response system such as one provided by a fire department using an API of the emergency response system. Third party APIs can also be used to collect user data and user activity data from third parties. For example an API of a social network provider can be utilized to gather user activity data for a user.

System includes processing engine which further includes a number of paradigms . Processing engine can include a managed services paradigm that monitors and manages device functions such as ensuring proper operation of a device responding to emergency situations or detecting failure of equipment coupled to the device e.g. a burned out light bulb . Processing engine can further include an advertising communication paradigm that identifies characteristics e.g. demographic information of a user or products of interest to a user based on device usage. Processing engine can further include a social paradigm that collects data from and transmits data to a social network. For example a user s status as reported on the social network can be collected and processed to determine user activity.

The processing engine can also utilize extrinsic information with the processing paradigms. Extrinsic information can be used to interpret data received from a smart device to determine a characteristic of the environment near the smart device e.g. outside an enclosure that contains the smart device to determine services or products available to the user to identify a social network or social network information to determine contact information of entities e.g. public service entities such as an emergency response team the police or a hospital near the smart device or to identify statistical or environmental conditions trends or other information associated with a home or neighborhood.

In one embodiment hazard detector is a roughly square or rectangular shaped object having a width of approximately 120 to 134 mm and a thickness of approximately 38 mm. Hazard detector includes a mounting plate that can be attached to a wall or ceiling and a back plate that can be mounted to the mounting plate . Hazard detector further includes a front casing that can be secured to the back plate to define a housing with an interior region for containing the components of the hazard detector .

A circuit board can be attached to the back plate and various components can be mounted to the circuit board . For example a smoke chamber can be mounted on circuit board and configured to detect the presence of smoke. In one embodiment smoke chamber can be mid mounted relative to circuit board so that air can flow into smoke chamber from above the circuit board and below the circuit board . A speaker and alarm device not numbered can also be mounted on circuit board to audibly warn an occupant of a potential fire danger when the presence of smoke is detected in the smoke chamber . Other components such as a motion sensor e.g. ultrasonic passive IR etc. carbon monoxide sensor temperature sensor heat sensor ambient light sensor noise sensor microprocessor and the like may likewise be mounted on circuit board .

In one embodiment a protective plate can be attached to circuit board to provide a visually pleasing appearance to the inner components of hazard detector or to funnel airflow to smoke chamber . For example when a user views the internal components of hazard detector such as through the vents in back plate protective plate can provide the appearance of a relatively smooth surface and otherwise hide the components or circuitry of circuit board . Protective plate can likewise function to direct air flow from the vents of back plate toward smoke chamber .

Hazard detector can also include a battery pack which can be the main source of power for the various components of hazard detector . In one embodiment battery pack is a backup power source and hazard detector is further coupled with a primary external power source such as a 120 V power source of the home or enclosure. In some embodiments a cover plate can be attached to the front casing to provide a visually pleasing appearance or for other functional purposes. In a specific embodiment cover plate may include a plurality of holes or openings so that the sensors on circuit board can detect external objects. The plurality of openings can be arranged to provide a visually pleasing appearance when viewed. For example the openings can be arranged according to a repeating pattern such as a Fibonacci or other sequence.

A lens button can be coupled with or otherwise mounted to cover plate . Lens button can be transparent allowing the sensors to view through the lens button . For example a PIR sensor not shown can be positioned behind the lens button to detect the activity or movement of a user. In some embodiments lens button can also function as a pressable button for inputting commands such as to shut off a false alarm. A light ring can be positioned distally behind lens button . The light ring can be configured to receive and disperse light e.g. from an LED or other light source so as to provide a desired visual appearance such as a halo behind the lens button . A flexible circuit board that includes one or more electrical components such as a PIR sensor or LEDs can be positioned behind the light ring . Flexible circuit board can be electrically coupled to circuit board enabling data communications with one or more microprocessors mounted on circuit board .

Visual effect represents a rotating effect that can be created when all of light elements and are turned on and off sequentially in a clockwise direction. In one embodiment turning on and off the lights can be done in a gradual fashion. For example light element can gradually turn off and light element gradually turns on while light elements and are turned on at an equal brightness.

Visual effect represents a wave visual effect that can be created when light elements shown in turn on and off in a side to side direction. For example at a given point in time light element is the brightest light elements and are the next brightest and light elements and are the least bright. Shortly thereafter the lights may gradually change brightness in a linear manner such that light elements and are the brightest lights and are the next brightest and light is the least bright.

Visual effect represents a shimmer visual effect that can be created when each of the light elements cycle through a hue range pattern with each light element s hue range pattern being out of sync with all the other lights.

In various embodiments the visual effects described above can be varied in a number of different ways. For example each effect may be animated faster or slower brighter or dimmer for a specific number of animation cycles with only some of the light participating and using different colors e.g. white blue green yellow and red. These visual effects can be generated by a hazard detector for a variety of purposes. For example a specific color animation animation speed etc. or combinations thereof can represent one or more of the following alerts or notifications provided by a hazard detector booting up selecting language ready for connections connected to client button pressed button pressed for test countdown to test test under way test completed pre alarms smoke alarms carbon monoxide alarms heat alarms multi criteria alarms hushed after alarm post alarm problems night light state reset shutdown begin shutdown safely light battery very low battery critical power confirmation and more.

Process begins at block when the hazard detector is triggered by the presence of a hazardous substance. In one embodiment the hazard detector is triggered if the level of hazardous substance present i.e. the amount or concentration of the hazardous substance is greater than a threshold setting. In other embodiments the hazard detector can include multiple threshold settings for detecting different levels of the hazardous substance. At block the hazard detector generates a hazard event indicating the detection of the hazardous substance. The hazard event can include a unique identification of the hazard detector as well as other information such as the level of the hazardous substance or data from other sensors in the hazard detector. At block the hazard detector transmits the hazard event to the computer server system.

With reference now to the computer server system at block accounts are stored. In one embodiment an account is stored when a user registers a hazard detector. In another embodiment an account is stored when a user creates an account by specifying user information including a username and password. At block the hazard event is received. The computer server system can determine which hazard detector transmitted the hazard event using the unique identification of the hazard detector that is included in the hazard event block . In one embodiment the unique identification is the media access control address MAC address of the hazard detector. In other embodiments the unique identification can be any arbitrarily defined combination of characters and numbers.

At block the computer server system determines an account that is associated with the hazard detector that transmitted the hazard event. In one embodiment the account can be determined by doing a search or a query in a database of accounts using the unique identification of the hazard detector. In another embodiment the stored accounts are indexed by the hazard detectors associated with each account and the account can be determined using a lookup table. At block the computer server system determines that the mobile device is authorized to access the account. This determination can be made using for example a username and password that the user entered when logging into the mobile application or user interface. Thus in other embodiments this block can be performed before the hazard event is received at block . At block the hazard event is transmitted to the mobile device. In some embodiments additional information can be included with the hazard event before transmission. For example the computer server system can include a location e.g. a room name that is associated with the hazard detector in the hazard event. In another embodiment the computer server system can include a message in the hazard event that explains the event or provides some other instructions.

At block the mobile device receives the hazard event. At block the mobile device displays the hazard event. More specifically a mobile application displays the hazard event in a user interface according to any of the embodiments described herein. Embodiments for displaying hazard events are described in detail herein below with reference to .

At block the hazard detector detects a hazardous substance such as smoke or CO. In one embodiment the hazardous substance is detected when the level of the hazardous substance present at the hazard detector is greater than a preset threshold. The threshold defines a level of hazardous substance at which an alarm or pre alarm event should be generated. In some embodiments multiple thresholds can be used by the hazard detector some corresponding to levels at which pre alarms should be generated and some corresponding to levels at which an alarm should be generated. Different thresholds can be used for different hazardous substances. Some threshold settings can also be used to generate notifications indicating that the hazardous situation is improving. For example if the level of hazardous substance decreases below a threshold setting an event can be generated that informs the user that the hazardous substance is clearing out.

At block a light is activated on the hazard detector to indicate the detection of the hazardous substance. In one embodiment this light includes the LED lights described herein above with reference to and any of the visual effects described with reference to can be generated by the light. In one embodiment a yellow light indicates a pre alarm level of hazardous substance has been detected and a red light indicates an alarm or emergency level of hazardous substance has been detected. A green light can be used for notifications not associated with the detection of a hazardous substance such as to indicate that the battery level is good or all sensors are functioning properly.

At block a hazard event is transmitted from the hazard detector to the computer server system. After the computer server system processes the hazard event the hazard event is transmitted to the mobile device at block . A native mobile application or a web browser on the mobile device displays the hazard event by displaying the same color as the light on the triggered hazard detector. In some embodiments the user interface also displays color in the same shape as the light on the hazard detector e.g. a ring and or generates the same visual effects as the light on the hazard detector.

After receiving user input selecting the link at block a request is transmitted for a history of events at block . The request can be transmitted to the computer server system and can include an identifier for the hazard detector or other information. At block historical events are received for the hazard detector as a response to the request. At block the historical events are displayed according to any of the embodiments described herein. Detailed descriptions of embodiments for displaying historical events will be described herein below with reference to .

Three different states of the user interface are depicted in this illustration. At state the user interface displays a green colored ring to indicate that all of the hazard detectors are not detecting any hazardous substances. It can also indicate that all three hazard detectors are functioning properly and their battery levels are not low. At state the Living Room hazard detector has detected a pre alarm level of CO. The Living Room hazard detector is moved to the top of the list and a yellow colored ring is displayed indicating the pre alarm level of CO detected. At state the Living Room hazard detector no longer detects CO but the Master Bedroom hazard detector has detected an emergency level of smoke. The status for the Master Bedroom hazard detector is now displayed at the top of the list and a red colored ring is displayed indicating the emergency level of smoke detected. If multiple hazard detectors associated with the account have detected a hazardous substance the ring that is displayed above list can be in a color that matches the most severe event.

In one embodiment a new thread is created when a hazard detector reports a hazard event e.g. pre alarm or emergency for smoke or CO and no other hazard detector associated with the same account is reporting a hazard event. After a new thread is created any subsequent hazard events reported by hazard detectors associated with the same account are grouped into the thread. Once all hazard detectors associated with the account report a cleared event for each hazardous substance that was detected the thread is closed and a new thread is started for the next hazard event reported. This process can be performed by the computer server system or the mobile application. In one embodiment the computer server system associates a tag with each hazard event received from a hazard detector and transmits the tag along with the hazard event to the mobile device. The tag indicates whether the hazard event should be placed into an existing thread or a new thread.

In one embodiment user interface displays the last event or message received for each thread in the list of message threads . In this illustration the user interface is displaying two message threads and . The thread that is still active can be emphasized by for example using a bold font or an indicator to grab the user s attention.

When a user selects a thread all of the messages in that thread are displayed. At state the user interface is displaying the messages for thread which only contains one message for a pre alarm hazard event in this embodiment. At state the user interface is displaying the messages for thread which contains three messages for a cleared event an emergency hazard event and a pre alarm hazard event . The messages can be displayed in chronological order or reverse chronological order.

At state two links and are displayed which can be hyperlinks or buttons. In one embodiment when a user selects link logic embedded in the link causes the dialer interface of the mobile device to be displayed and inserts a universal emergency number such as 911 into the dialer interface. Thus the user only needs to press the call button to make an emergency call. In another embodiment selecting link will cause the mobile device to dial the universal emergency number. If link is selected embedded logic can cause the mobile device to display the dialer interface with a user defined emergency contact number inserted or dial the user defined emergency contact number. The emergency contact can be predefined by the user by selecting a contact from the list contacts stored on the phone or in a cloud account.

At state the user interface displays a list of dates for which the hazard detector generated events. In one embodiment the hazard detector generates at least one check in event each day to indicate whether the hazard detector is functioning properly and the status of the battery level. There can be a maximum number of dates that the user interface displays historical events for. In this embodiment the user interface displays historical events for eight dates. A summary is displayed for each date in the list. In one embodiment the summary indicates the most severe historical event generated by the hazard detector on each date. In another embodiment the summary indicates the last historical event generated by the hazard detector on each date.

When a user selects a specific date a timeline is displayed in place of the summary for that date. At state the user interface is displaying a timeline for Tuesday October 1. The historical events that were generated by the hazard detector on that date are plotted as markers on the timeline at positions corresponding to the time that each historical event was generated. A symbol or indicator is displayed above the marker that indicates the type of event. In one embodiment a thread of historical events is also indicated on the timeline by a shaded region corresponding to the duration of the thread.

At state the user interface is displaying a tooltip for a thread. The tooltip can be displayed when a user selects a marker or shaded region on the timeline. The tooltip provides details for the event or thread corresponding to the selection. In this embodiment the tooltip is displaying the descriptions for three events that were generated as part of a thread.

At state the user interface is displaying an expanded area for the Brightness setting in response to a user selecting the Brightness setting by for example touching the Brightness setting on a touch screen or clicking on the Brightness setting with a mouse. A switch is displayed in the expanded area that allows the user to adjust the setting. A description for the setting is also displayed in the expanded area. The Brightness Setting allows the user to adjust the brightness of a light source that is included in the hazard detector which can be used as a night light or to communicate messages to the user.

When a user selects a different setting such as the Technical Info setting the display area for the Brightness is reduced. Since the display area of the mobile device is limited this allows the user interface to display more information without having to display a different screen which can be confusing to a user. At state the user interface is displaying a reduced Brightness setting area and an expanded Technical Info setting area. The Technical Info setting displays technical details for the hazard detector including model serial number software version battery status replace by date of when the hazard detector should be replaced last update time MAC addresses and internet protocol IP address.

The arrow on the right side of the list indicates that a new screen will be displayed for the setting or group of settings. At state the user interface is displaying the screen for the Spoken Language setting which allows the user to adjust the language that is spoken by the hazard detector.

At state the user interface is displaying an expanded area for the Nightly Promise setting. Nightly Promise is a feature that uses the light source to communicate to the user that the hazard detector is functioning properly and the battery level is good by generating a green glow with the light source when the lights are turned off i.e. when an ambient light sensor in the hazard detector senses a drop in ambient light level .

The clock symbol next to the switch indicates that the user adjusted the setting but the new value has not been applied yet to the hazard detector and therefore is not in effect. To conserve battery the hazard detector only communicates with the computer server system at regular intervals unless a hazardous substance is detected. In one embodiment the hazard detector transmits a check in event to the computer server system every 24 hours and adjusted settings are only applied when the hazard detector checks in. Thus after the user makes the adjustment the new value of the setting is stored at the computer server system until a check in event is received from the hazard detector at which time the new value for the setting is applied.

At state the user interface is displaying an expanded area for the Line voltage Indicator setting. This setting determines whether an indicator such as an LED light is activated to indicate that the primary power source of the hazard detector is supplying power. In one embodiment this setting is only available if the hazard detector is a wired hazard detector such that the primary power source is the electricity power line of the house. In another embodiment the indicator can be activated to indicate that the primary power supply is not supplying power.

At state the Heads Up setting is expanded in the display area of the user interface. When this setting is activated the hazard detector provides a pre alarm when the level of hazardous substance is rising but has not reached an emergency level. Thus when the detected level of hazardous substance is above a pre alarm threshold but below an alarm threshold the hazard detector generates the pre alarm. The pre alarm can be in the form of an audible alert or visual alert. In one embodiment the hazard detector generates audible speech that announces the rising level of hazardous substance and activates a yellow light.

At block the mobile device displays a current value for the setting in a user interface. The current value for the setting is the value that is in effect on the hazard detector. At block the user interface receives input from a user that adjusts the setting to an adjusted value. At block the adjusted value is transmitted to the computer server system and at block a pending indicator is displayed for the setting in the user interface. The pending indicator tells the user that the adjusted value for the setting has not been applied yet. After the user interface receives a signal from the computer server system indicating that the adjusted value for the setting has been applied block the pending indicator is removed from the display of the setting block .

With reference now to the computer server system at block the adjusted value for the setting is received. At block the computer server system determines which hazard detector the adjusted setting value corresponds to. In one embodiment the user interface transmits a unique identifier of the hazard detector with the adjusted setting value and the computer server system can extract the identifier to determine the corresponding hazard detector.

The computer server system then waits for a check in event from the hazard detector. At block the check in event is received from the hazard detector and at block the computer system transmits the adjusted value to the hazard detector so that it can be applied to the setting. In one embodiment the computer server system performs a conflict resolution process before transmitting the adjusted value at block . The computer server system can receive multiple adjustments to the setting before a check in event is received. For example two different users of the hazard detector can both make adjustments to the setting from their own mobile device or one adjustment can be made from the hazard detector and another adjustment can be made from a mobile device. The resolution process determines which adjusted value to apply to the setting. In one embodiment the determination is made based on the time that each adjustment was made. Thus if the computer server system received multiple adjustments to the setting before the hazard detector checked in the most recent adjustment will be transmitted to the hazard detector at block .

At block the computer server system transmits the signal to the mobile device indicating the adjusted value is in effect. In this embodiment the computer server system assumes that the adjusted value will be applied and take effect if it was successfully transmitted to the hazard detector. In other embodiments the computer server system waits for a confirmation from the hazard detector indicating that the adjustment has been applied before transmitting the signal to the mobile device at block .

At block the hazard detector transmits the check in event to the computer server system. In this embodiment the hazard detector checks in at regular time intervals and setting adjustments are only applied during check in. Thus if a hazardous substance is detected and a hazard event is transmitted the computer server system would not transmit the adjusted setting value to the hazard detector in response to receiving the hazard event. This reduces traffic on the communication channels during a hazardous situation which helps ensure that emergency communication transmissions will be successful. At block the hazard detector receives the adjusted value for the setting and at block the adjusted value is applied to the setting according to any of the embodiments described herein.

At block the user interface displays a list of settings for the hazard detector. In this embodiment the list of settings includes at least two expandable settings. The list can also include groups of settings or settings that display a new screen when selected. At block user input is received selecting a first setting. In response to the user input the display area for the first setting is expanded at block . A current value for the first setting is displayed in the expanded area at block . A switch or button can also be displayed in the expanded area to allow the user to adjust the setting. In one embodiment the current value is displayed by the position of the switch or button.

At block a second user input is received selecting a second setting from the list. The display area of the first setting is reduced back to the original size at block in response to the second user input and at block the display area of the second setting is expanded. The current value for the second setting is also displayed in the expanded area at block . In this way a convenient user interface is provided to the user for adjusting multiple settings of the hazard detector on the mobile device.

A user can input commands into the computer using various input devices such as a mouse keyboard track ball touch screen etc. If the computer system comprises a mainframe a designer can access the computer using for example a terminal or terminal interface. Additionally the computer system may be connected to a printer and a server using a network router which may connect to the Internet or a WAN. While only one server is shown in the figure it is understood that computer system can be connected to any number of servers.

The server may be used to store additional software programs and data. In one embodiment software implementing the systems and methods described herein can be stored on a storage medium in the server . Thus the software can be run from the storage medium in the server . In another embodiment software implementing the systems and methods described herein can be stored on a storage medium in the computer . Thus the software can be run from the storage medium in the computer system . Therefore in this embodiment the software can be used whether or not computer is connected to network router . Printer may be connected directly to computer in which case the computer system can print whether or not it is connected to network router .

Special purpose computer system comprises a computer a monitor coupled to computer one or more additional user output devices optional coupled to computer one or more user input devices e.g. keyboard mouse track ball touch screen coupled to computer an optional communications interface coupled to computer a computer program product stored in a tangible computer readable memory in computer . Computer program product directs system to perform the above described methods. Computer may include one or more processors that communicate with a number of peripheral devices via a bus subsystem . These peripheral devices may include user output device s user input device s communications interface and a storage subsystem such as random access memory RAM and non transitory storage drive e.g. disk drive optical drive solid state drive which are forms of tangible computer readable memory.

Computer program product may be stored in non transitory storage drive or another computer readable medium accessible to computer and loaded into memory . Each processor may comprise a microprocessor such as a microprocessor from Intel or Advanced Micro Devices Inc. or the like. To support computer program product the computer runs an operating system that handles the communications of product with the above noted components as well as the communications between the above noted components in support of the computer program product . Exemplary operating systems include Windows or the like from Microsoft Corporation Solaris from Sun Microsystems LINUX UNIX and the like.

User input devices include all possible types of devices and mechanisms to input information to computer system . These may include a keyboard a keypad a mouse a scanner a digital drawing pad a touch screen incorporated into the display audio input devices such as voice recognition systems microphones and other types of input devices. In various embodiments user input devices are typically embodied as a computer mouse a trackball a track pad a joystick wireless remote a drawing tablet a voice command system. User input devices typically allow a user to select objects icons text and the like that appear on the monitor via a command such as a click of a button or the like. User output devices include all possible types of devices and mechanisms to output information from computer . These may include a display e.g. monitor printers non visual displays such as audio output devices etc.

Communications interface provides an interface to other communication networks and devices and may serve as an interface to receive data from and transmit data to other systems WANs and or the Internet . Embodiments of communications interface typically include an Ethernet card a modem telephone satellite cable ISDN a asynchronous digital subscriber line DSL unit a FireWire interface a USB interface a wireless network adapter and the like. For example communications interface may be coupled to a computer network to a FireWire bus or the like. In other embodiments communications interface may be physically integrated on the motherboard of computer and or may be a software program or the like.

RAM and non transitory storage drive are examples of tangible computer readable media configured to store data such as computer program product embodiments of the present invention including executable computer code human readable code or the like. Other types of tangible computer readable media include floppy disks removable hard disks optical storage media such as CD ROMs DVDs bar codes semiconductor memories such as flash memories read only memories ROMs battery backed volatile memories networked storage devices and the like. RAM and non transitory storage drive may be configured to store the basic programming and data constructs that provide the functionality of various embodiments of the present invention as described above.

Software instruction sets that provide the functionality of the present invention may be stored in RAM and non transitory storage drive . These instruction sets or code may be executed by the processor s . RAM and non transitory storage drive may also provide a repository to store data and data structures used in accordance with the present invention. RAM and non transitory storage drive may include a number of memories including a main random access memory RAM to store instructions and data during program execution and a read only memory ROM in which fixed instructions are stored. RAM and non transitory storage drive may include a file storage subsystem providing persistent non transitory storage of program and or data files. RAM and non transitory storage drive may also include removable storage systems such as removable flash memory.

Bus subsystem provides a mechanism to allow the various components and subsystems of computer to communicate with each other as intended. Although bus subsystem is shown schematically as a single bus alternative embodiments of the bus subsystem may utilize multiple busses or communication paths within the computer .

Also it is noted that the embodiments may be described as a process which is depicted as a flowchart a flow diagram a swim diagram a data flow diagram a structure diagram or a block diagram. Although a depiction may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be re arranged. A process is terminated when its operations are completed but could have additional steps not included in the figure. A process may correspond to a method a function a procedure a subroutine a subprogram etc. When a process corresponds to a function its termination corresponds to a return of the function to the calling function or the main function.

Furthermore embodiments may be implemented by hardware software scripting languages firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages and or any combination thereof. For a hardware implementation the processing units may be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessors other electronic units designed to perform the functions described above and or a combination thereof.

For a firmware and or software implementation the methodologies may be implemented with modules e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described herein. Any machine readable medium tangibly embodying instructions may be used in implementing the methodologies described herein. For example software codes may be stored in a memory. Memory may be implemented within the processor or external to the processor. As used herein the term memory refers to any type of long term short term volatile nonvolatile or other storage medium and is not to be limited to any particular type of memory or number of memories or type of media upon which memory is stored.

Moreover as disclosed herein the term storage medium may represent one or more memories for storing data including read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic RAM core memory magnetic disk storage mediums optical storage mediums flash memory devices and or other machine readable mediums for storing information. The term machine readable medium includes but is not limited to portable or fixed storage devices optical storage devices wireless channels and or various other storage mediums capable of storing that contain or carry instruction s and or data.

While the principles of the disclosure have been described above in connection with specific apparatuses and methods it is to be clearly understood that this description is made only by way of example and not as limitation on the scope of the disclosure.

