---

title: Proactive assistance in obtaining a wireless network connection
abstract: A user may be proactively identified as needing assistance to access a home wireless network. Assistance may be automatically provided through, for example, a text message, email, or telephone call. In one implementation, a method may include monitoring a wireless access point that provides a wireless network; obtaining, based on the monitoring, an indication of a failed attempt to attach to the wireless network due to entry of an incorrect network password; and causing, based on the obtained indication of the failed attempt to attach to the wireless network, transmission of a correct password for the wireless network to a mobile device corresponding to an account associated with the wireless network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09338651&OS=09338651&RS=09338651
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09338651
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140509
---
Wireless networks such as Wi Fi wireless networks can provide a relatively easily and flexible technique for providing network connectivity to computing devices. Security for wireless networks can be important as wireless network traffic over open air connections may be particularly susceptible to interception by malicious entities.

Wireless networks may include a number of mechanisms to secure access to the wireless networks. One technique involves the use of a pre shared key or password that is used to secure network traffic. With a pre shared key a user that attempts to join a particular wireless network may be prompted to enter the key corresponding to the wireless network.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

Techniques described herein may proactively identify when users such as users of a home wireless network are likely to need assistance in obtaining access to the home wireless network. Assistance may be automatically provided through for example a text message an email or telephone call.

In the example implementation of the computing device associated with the user s residence such as the laptop may run a Wi Fi assistance client. The Wi Fi assistance client may be a program provided by a telecommunications provider that operates to monitor the state of the access point. In particular the Wi Fi assistance client may monitor logs such as error logs generated by the access point. For example the Wi Fi assistance client may log in to the access point via an Application Programming Interface API supported by the access point or through a hyper text transfer protocol HTTP interface provided by the access point. The Wi Fi assistance client may thus be able to obtain and monitor operational logs generated by the access point arrow 1 monitor logs . 

Further in assume that the mobile device and the laptop are connected to the Wi Fi network associated with the user residence via the access point. Further assume that the user would like to connect the tablet with the wireless network. The user may navigate to a networking menu associated with the tablet but may be unable to remember or may not know the password. The user may thus enter an incorrect password or no password at the network connection menu displayed by the tablet arrow 2 failed login attempt .

The Wi Fi assistance client may detect based on analysis of the access point logs login failures of users trying to connect to the wireless network. For example the failure of the tablet to connect to the wireless network may be detected arrow 3 login failure detected . In response the Wi Fi assistance client may assist the user in connecting to the wireless network. For example as illustrated the Wi Fi assistance client may transmit a message to a remote Wi Fi assistance server arrow 4 assistance request for login .

In one implementation the Wi Fi assistance server may be a server operated by a telecommunications provider that provides network connectivity to the user residence. The Wi Fi assistance server may store information that can be used to assist the user in resolving network connectivity problems. For example the Wi Fi assistance server may store the password associated with the wireless network of the user residence.

The Wi Fi assistance server based on the assistance request relating to login of the tablet may transmit the network password to the user. The network password may be transmitted using a number of possible techniques. For example as illustrated a Short Message Service SMS text message may be transmitted to the user arrow 5 SMS . The text SMS message may be displayed by the mobile device and may include an indication of the user s password. As illustrated in this example the message is Your Wi Fi password is green101. In this manner the user may be proactively reminded of the Wi Fi password corresponding to the user s wireless network. Advantageously the user may not need to call customer service and the telecommunications provider may save resources by not needing to handle the potential helpdesk call relating to the user s inability to log in to the wireless network.

In assume that the user would like to connect the tablet with the wireless network. The user may navigate to a networking menu associated with the tablet but may be unable to remember or may not know the password. The user may thus enter an incorrect password or no password at the network connection menu displayed by the tablet arrow 1 login failure attempt .

The Wi Fi assistance client executing at the access point may detect the failures of the user trying to connect the tablet to the wireless network. For example the failure of the tablet to connect to the wireless network may be detected arrow 2 failed login attempt . In response the Wi Fi assistance client may assist the user in connecting to the wireless network. For example as illustrated the Wi Fi assistance client may transmit a message to a remote server arrow 3 assistance request for login .

In response to the assistance request the Wi Fi assistance server may transmit the network password to the user arrow 4 SMS . The network password may be transmitted as a SMS text message that may be displayed by the mobile device and may include an indication of the user s password. In this manner as with the implementation of the user may be proactively reminded of the Wi Fi password corresponding to the user s wireless network.

Wi Fi assistance server may include one or more computing devices such as a server device or a collection of server devices. Wi Fi assistance server may operate to transmit messages to communication devices associated with user residences to assist users in obtaining connectivity to wireless networks e.g. Wi Fi based networks . Wi Fi assistance server may store identification information relating to various user residences network connectivity information e.g. passwords relating to wireless connectivity at the various user residences and or other information. Wi Fi assistance server may in response to requests from devices such as devices associated with user residence may transmit log in assistance information such as a Wi Fi password to communication devices associated with user residence .

Network may include one or more wired and or wireless networks. For example network may include a cellular network e.g. a second generation 2G network a third generation 3G network a fourth generation 4G network a fifth generation 5G network a long term evolution LTE network a global system for mobile GSM network a code division multiple access CDMA network an evolution data optimized EVDO network or the like a public land mobile network PLMN and or another network. Additionally or alternatively network may include a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan network MAN the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN an ad hoc network a managed Internet Protocol IP network a virtual private network VPN an intranet the Internet a fiber optic based network and or a combination of these or other types of networks.

User residence may include a residence associated with a customer of a telecommunications provider that provides telecommunications services to user residence . The telecommunications services may include network connectivity such as Internet network connectivity. In some implementations the telecommunications provider may also provide other telecommunication services to user residence . For example a telecommunications provider may provide television services cellular telephone services traditional wired telephone services and or other services.

As particularly illustrated in user residence may include user devices through N where N is greater than or equal to one wireless access point and Wi Fi assistance client . Wi Fi assistance client although conceptually illustrated as being separate from user devices and wireless access point may be implemented by or as part of wireless access point and or one or more of user devices .

User devices hereinafter sometimes referred to individually as user device and collectively as user devices may each include computing and communication devices. For example a particular user device may correspond to a mobile communication device e.g. a smart phone or a personal digital assistant PDA a portable computer device e.g. a laptop or a tablet computer a gaming device a desktop computer device a television set top box STB or another type of device. In one implementation at least some of user devices may include wireless adapters that enable user devices to connect to short range wireless networks such as wireless networks based on the IEEE 802.11 family of standards commonly referred to as Wi Fi . Wi Fi connectivity may be obtained for example through wireless access point .

Wireless access point may include a device that allows wireless devices to connect to a wired network using Wi Fi or a different standard. In some implementations wireless access point may include a router. In this case wireless access point may commonly be referred to as a wireless router. Wireless access point may provide connectivity to network . Thus wireless access point may wirelessly receive communications from user devices and may forward the communications via a wired or wireless link to network . Wireless access point may maintain operational logs relating to network access attempts or to other actions by user devices .

Wi Fi assistance client may detect network connectivity issues such as problems associated with user devices in attaching to the Wi Fi network provided by wireless access point . As previously mentioned in one implementation Wi Fi assistance client may detect problems relating to incorrect entry of a password or shared key at one of user devices when user device tries to access the Wi Fi network. In response Wi Fi assistance client may initiate the providing of assistance e.g. the Wi Fi password to one or more user devices associated with user residence . Wi Fi assistance client may include software that is executed at one of user devices . In some implementations Wi Fi assistance client may be implemented as a computing process that is implemented by wireless access point . The operation of Wi Fi assistance client will be described in more detail below.

The quantity of devices and or networks in environment is not limited to what is shown in . In practice environment may include additional devices and or networks fewer devices and or networks different devices and or networks or differently arranged devices and or networks than illustrated in . Also in some implementations one or more of the devices of environment may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another one or more of the devices of environment . Devices of environment may interconnect via wired connections wireless connections or a combination of wired and wireless connections.

As illustrated data structure may include a number of fields including customer identification ID field network credentials field preferred assistance technology field and assistance data field . The fields shown for data structure are examples. In alternative possible implementations different fewer or additional fields may be implemented.

Customer identification field may store information that identifies particular customers of a telecommunication provider that provides network access to user residences . The identification information may include for example a user account name a telephone number associated with the user residence an account number associated with the residence information unique for a particular wireless access point e.g. a media access control MAC value serial number or other value or other identification information. In one implementation each wireless access point in use at one or more user residences may be associated with an entry e.g. a row in data structure . In this situation customer identification field may include a list of identifiers associated with wireless access points.

Network credentials field may store information relating to accessing a wireless network associated with corresponding customer identifier. As mentioned the information may include a password or pre shared key associated with the wireless network. Alternatively or additionally the information stored in network credentials field may include a Service Set Identifier SSID that identifies the wireless network and or other information associated with the wireless network.

Preferred assistance technology field may include information indicating how the particular user associated with customer ID field is to be contacted. For example a user may choose to be contacted via an SMS text message an automated phone call an email a pop up window provided by a STB or via other techniques. In one implementation when registering for the network assistance services offered by Wi Fi assistance client and Wi Fi assistance server the user may indicate the method by which the user prefers to be contacted.

Assistance data field may store information relating to the method by which the user prefers to be contacted. For example assistance data field may include a telephone number for an automated telephone call or SMS message or an email address for contacting via email .

Three example entries are shown for data structure . Customer identifier field for the first two records may correspond to MAC addresses FA 80 32 11 23 7B and FC 81 00 22 44 9E respectively associated with wireless access points . Network credentials field for these two records may include corresponding passwords associated with the wireless access points green101 and a32G7111 respectively . Preferred assistance technology field and assistance data field may indicate that the preferred message of contact is via SMS and provide telephone numbers to which the wireless network passwords are to be transmitted e.g. 703 555 1010 and 512 555 0808 . For the third illustrated entry customer identifier field may store an account login value jsmith and network credentials field may store a password a32G7111 associated with the wireless access point of the customer. Preferred assistance technology field may store an indication that the customer would like to be contacted via telephone and email and assistance data field may store the customer s contact information 512 555 1207 and jsmith example.com .

AP interface component may include logic to interact with wireless access point . In one implementation wireless access point may internally maintain logs relating to network connectivity requests from user devices . The logs may be accessed via an interface provided by wireless access point . The logs may include for example an indication of all successful and unsuccessful attempts to join the wireless network potentially along with timestamps corresponding to the attempts.

In one implementation wireless access point may provide an HTTP interface designed to allow for configuration of wireless access point . In this case AP interface component may include logic to interact with the HTTP interface such as via HTTP GET and POST requests. AP interface component may be configured to using the HTTP interface provided by wireless access point obtain the log data generated by wireless access point . As another example wireless access point may provide another type of interface that allows external devices to configure and interact with wireless access point . For example wireless access point may implement an Application Programming Interface API that is designed to be accessed programmatically by external devices. In this case AP interface component may use the API to obtain the logs.

In one implementation AP interface component may include logic to interact with a number of different makes models of wireless access points. For example AP interface component may include code e.g. a computer program or script customized for each of a number of different makes models of wireless access points . AP interface component may determine the make model of the connected wireless access point and accordingly select the appropriate computer program or script. In one implementation AP interface component may request log data from wireless access point at regular intervals.

AP log monitoring component may include logic to parse and or analyze the logs received from wireless access point . In one implementation AP log monitoring component may operate to determine when the logs indicate that a user device that attempted to join the wireless network provided by wireless access point was unable to join the wireless network due to incorrect entry of the network password or pre shared key. For instance the logs for a particular wireless access point may include an entry such as password rejected which may indicate entry of an incorrect wireless network password. In some implementations a certain number of failed attempts to join the wireless network within a particular time period e.g. three minutes may be required before AP log monitoring component generates an indication of a failed attempt to join the wireless network. For example AP log monitoring component may require at least two failed attempts within the previous five minutes before determining that there was a failed attempt to join the wireless network.

Assistance request component may include logic to initiate the providing of a wireless network password or other network credential information to a user. For example assistance request component may transmit a message to Wi Fi assistance server to indicate that a failed attempt to join the wireless network has been detected. The message may include information identifying wireless access point and or information identifying user residence . Wi Fi assistance server may respond to the message to proactively provide assistance to the user to join their wireless network.

In some implementations assistance request component instead of contacting a remote server such as Wi Fi assistance server may directly contact the user. For example assistance request component may directly generate a text message instant message email or may place an automated telephone call. In one implementation in which user device includes a STB assistance request component may determine whether a television is currently being used and if so may provide a pop up message to the television.

Process may include monitoring logs generated by a wireless access point block . For example AP interface component may monitor logs generated by wireless access point . As mentioned AP interface component may monitor the logs generated by AP interface component via for example an HTTP interface or another interface.

Process may further include determining based on the logs whether network attachment failures occur due to entry of a wrong password block . The determination of network access failure may be performed by AP log monitoring component . As previously mentioned AP log monitoring component may parse and or analyze the monitored logs to determine when a user device is unable to join the wireless network due to incorrect entry of the network password or pre shared key. In other implementations AP log monitoring component may detect network joining failure conditions other than entry of an incorrect password or pre shared key.

Process may further include when network access failure is detected block Yes initiating communication to provide the password to a user block . For example assistance request component may transmit a message to Wi Fi assistance server to indicate that a failed attempt to join the wireless network has been detected. The message may include information identifying wireless access point and or information identifying user residence . Wi Fi assistance server may as previously described obtain and forward the network password to the user e.g. via SMS email voice call etc. .

When network access failure is not detected block No process may continue to monitor the logs generated by wireless access point block .

Network connectivity monitoring component may monitor requests from user devices relating to joining the wireless network associated with wireless access point . In a manner similar to the operation of AP log monitoring component network connectivity monitoring component may operate to determine when a user device attempts to join the wireless network provided by wireless access point but is unable to join due to incorrect entry of the network password or pre shared key. In some implementations a certain number of failed attempts to join the wireless network within a particular time period e.g. three minutes may be required before network connectivity monitoring component generates an indication of a failed attempt to join the wireless network.

In some implementations network connectivity monitoring component may monitor information relating to the wireless network such as a number of currently connected wireless devices failed wireless connection attempts and or failed attempts to login to wireless access point . Network connectivity monitoring component may automatically determine patterns based on this information to identify when a user device attempts to join the wireless network but is unable to join. In some implementations connectivity monitoring component may transmit this information for analysis to Wi Fi assistance server .

Assistance request component may include logic to initiate the providing of a wireless network password or other network credential information to a user. Assistance request component may generally operate similarly to assistance request component . For example assistance request component may transmit a message to Wi Fi assistance server to indicate that a failed attempt to join the wireless network has been detected. The message may include information identifying wireless access point and or information identifying user residence . In one implementation assistance request component may use a protocol such as the known TR 069 protocol to communicate with Wi Fi assistance server and or for Wi Fi assistance server may use the TR 069 protocol to control Wi Fi assistance client .

Process may include monitoring network attachment requests block . For example network connectivity monitoring component may monitor network attachment requests from user devices to determine when attempts are made to join the wireless network but fail.

Process may further include determining based on the monitoring occurrence of network attachment failures due to entry of a wrong password block . The detection of network access failure may be performed by network connectivity monitoring component . As previously mentioned network connectivity monitoring component may determine when a user device is unable to join the wireless network due to incorrect entry of the network password or pre shared key. In other implementations network connectivity monitoring component may detect network joining failure conditions other than entry of an incorrect password or pre shared key.

Process may further include when network access failure is detected block Yes initiating communication to provide the network password to a user block . For example assistance request component may transmit a message to Wi Fi assistance server to indicate that a failed attempt to join the wireless network has been detected. The message may include information identifying wireless access point and or information identifying user residence . Wi Fi assistance server may as previously described obtain and forward the network password to the user e.g. via SMS email voice call etc. .

When network access failure is not detected block No process may continue to monitor the network attachment requests block .

As described above one or more attempts to join a wireless network such as a Wi Fi network implemented a user residence may be proactively detected and the network password for the wireless network may be transmitted to the user.

Assume user device initially scans for wireless networks within range of user device at . User device may locate the wireless network MyNetwork which may correspond to the wireless network broadcast by wireless access point at . The user may however not correctly remember the password for the wireless network may enter the incorrect network password wrongPwd at which may result in a failure of user device to obtain network access from wireless access point at .

Wi Fi assistance client may detect the network access failure at . For example as described above in response Wi Fi assistance client may determine the user s network password such as by maintaining a data structure similar to data structure at and may initiate sending of a message such as an SMS message to user device at . SMS gateway may forward the message including the network password to user device at . The user may thus receive the text message notice the correct network password and enter the correct network password at user device .

Bus may include one or more communication paths that permit communication among the components of device . Processor may include a processor microprocessor or processing logic that may interpret and execute instructions. Memory may include any type of dynamic storage device that may store information and instructions for execution by processor and or any type of non volatile storage device that may store information for use by processor .

Input component may include a mechanism that permits an operator to input information to device such as a keyboard a keypad a button a switch etc. Output component may include a mechanism that outputs information to the operator such as a display a speaker one or more light emitting diodes LEDs etc.

Communication interface may include any transceiver like mechanism that enables device to communicate with other devices and or systems. For example communication interface may include an Ethernet interface an optical interface a coaxial interface or the like. Communication interface may include a wireless communication device such as an infrared IR receiver a Bluetooth radio a cellular radio transceiver or the like. The wireless communication device may be coupled to an external device such as a remote control a wireless keyboard a mobile telephone etc. In some embodiments device may include more than one communication interface . For instance device may include an optical interface and an Ethernet interface.

Device may perform certain operations relating to one or more processes described above. Device may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions stored in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a non transitory memory device. A memory device may include space within a single physical memory device or spread across multiple physical memory devices. The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device. The software instructions stored in memory may cause processor to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The foregoing description of implementations provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the possible implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice of the implementations. For example while series of blocks have been described with regard to the order of the blocks may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel. Additionally while a series of signals has been described with regard to the order of the signals may be modified in other implementations. Also non dependent signals may be sent and or received in parallel. In some implementations additional signals may be transmitted before after or in between the described signals.

Additionally while examples of a data structure is illustrated in as including certain types of information in practice these data structures may store additional fewer different or differently arranged types of information than shown in these figures. Furthermore while these data structures are shown as tables in practice these data structures may take the form of any other type of data structure such as an array a linked list a hash table a tree and or any other type of data structure.

The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement an embodiment is not limiting of the embodiment. Thus the operation and behavior of the embodiment has been described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware may be designed based on the description herein.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of the possible implementations. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one other claim the disclosure of the possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

Further while certain connections or devices are shown in practice additional fewer or different connections or devices may be used. Furthermore while various devices and networks are shown separately in practice the functionality of multiple devices may be performed by a single device or the functionality of one device may be performed by multiple devices. Further multiple ones of the illustrated networks may be included in a single network or a particular network may include multiple networks. Further while some devices are shown as communicating with a network some such devices may be incorporated in whole or in part as a part of the network.

To the extent the aforementioned embodiments collect store or employ personal information provided by individuals it should be understood that such information shall be used in accordance with all applicable laws concerning protection of personal information. Additionally the collection storage and use of such information may be subject to consent of the individual to such activity for example through well known opt in or opt out processes as may be appropriate for the situation and type of information. Storage and use of personal information may be in an appropriately secure manner reflective of the type of information for example through various encryption and anonymization techniques for particularly sensitive information.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential unless explicitly described as such. An instance of the use of the term and as used herein does not necessarily preclude the interpretation that the phrase and or was intended in that instance. Similarly an instance of the use of the term or as used herein does not necessarily preclude the interpretation that the phrase and or was intended in that instance. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with the phrase one or more. Where only one item is intended the terms one single only or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

