---

title: Method, system, and graphical user interface for alerting a computer user to new results for a prior search
abstract: A method, system, and graphical user interface for alerting a computer user to new results for a prior search are disclosed. One aspect of the invention involves a graphical user interface on a computer that includes a plurality of links recommended by a search engine for a computer user. The plurality of links are determined by the search engine by: producing search results by rerunning a plurality of search queries that have been performed previously for the computer user, and evaluating the produced search results to select search results that meet predefined search result selection criteria. At least one of the criteria is based on Internet usage data for the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09323846&OS=09323846&RS=09323846
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09323846
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140213
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 043 400 filed Mar. 8 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 323 096 filed Dec. 30 2005 the contents of which are incorporated by reference.

The disclosed embodiments relate generally to search engines. More particularly the disclosed embodiments relate to methods systems and user interfaces for alerting a computer user to new results for a prior search.

Search engines typically provide a source of indexed documents from the Internet or an intranet that can be rapidly scanned in response to a search query submitted by a user. As the number of documents accessible via the Internet grows the number of documents that match a particular query may also increase. However not every document matching the query is likely to be equally important from a user s perspective. A user may be overwhelmed by an enormous number of documents returned by a search engine unless the documents are ordered based on their relevance to the user s query. One way to order documents is the PageRank algorithm more fully described in the article The Anatomy of a Large Scale Hypertextual Search Engine by S. Brin and L. Page. 7International World Wide Web Conference Brisbane Australia and U.S. Pat. No. 6 285 999 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference as background information.

Some queries by a computer user may concern continuing interests of the user. Some search engines such as Google s Web Alerts allow the user to explicitly specify such queries and receive alerts when a new web page in the top ten search results appears for the query. However it is too inconvenient for most users to explicitly register such queries. Google is a trademark of Google Inc. For example in an internal study of 18 Google Search History users out of 154 past queries that the users expressed a medium to strong interest in seeing further results none of these queries was actually registered as a web alert. In addition alerting the user to all changes to the search results for the query may cause too many uninteresting results to be shown to the user due to minor changes in the web or spurious changes in the ranking algorithm.

Thus it would be highly desirable to find ways to automatically identify queries in a user s search history that concern continuing interests of the user. In addition it would be highly desirable to find ways to automatically identify user relevant results to prior searches by the user that have not been shown to the user and to alert the user to such results.

One aspect of the invention involves a computer implemented method in which a search engine accesses Internet usage data for a computer user wherein the usage data include a plurality of search queries by the user using at least some of the Internet usage data identifies search queries in the plurality of search queries that meet predefined query selection criteria for queries that correspond to continuing interests of the user reruns at least some of the identified search queries evaluates search results from the rerun queries to select search results that meet predefined search result selection criteria and sends links corresponding to at least some of the selected search results to a computer associated with the user for display.

Another aspect of the invention involves a computer implemented method in which a search engine accesses Internet usage data for a computer user wherein the usage data include a plurality of search queries by the user using at least some of the Internet usage data identifies search queries in the plurality of search queries that meet predefined query selection criteria for queries that correspond to continuing interests of the user and reruns at least some of the identified search queries.

Another aspect of the invention involves a computer implemented method in which a search engine produces search results by rerunning a plurality of search queries that have been performed previously for a computer user evaluates the produced search results to select search results that meet predefined search result selection criteria wherein at least one of the criteria is based on Internet usage data for the user and sends links corresponding to at least some of the selected search results to a computer associated with the user for display.

Another aspect of the invention involves a graphical user interface on a computer that includes a plurality of links recommended by a search engine for a computer user. The plurality of links are determined by the search engine by producing search results by rerunning a plurality of search queries that have been performed previously for the computer user and evaluating the produced search results to select search results that meet predefined search result selection criteria wherein at least one of the criteria is based on Internet usage data for the user.

Another aspect of the invention involves a computer implemented method in which a client computer sends Internet usage data for a computer user to a server computer wherein the usage data include a plurality of search queries by the user. The server computer using at least some of the Internet usage data identifies search queries in the plurality of search queries that meet predefined query selection criteria for queries that correspond to continuing interests of the user reruns at least some of the identified search queries and evaluates search results from the rerun queries to select search results that meet predefined search result selection criteria. The client computer receives links corresponding to at least some of the selected search results from the server computer and displays at least some of the received links.

Another aspect of the invention involves a system that includes at least one server. The at least one server is configured to access Internet usage data for a computer user wherein the usage data include a plurality of search queries by the user using at least some of the Internet usage data identify search queries in the plurality of search queries that meet predefined query selection criteria for queries that correspond to continuing interests of the user and rerun at least some of the identified search queries.

Another aspect of the invention involves a client computer that is configured to send Internet usage data for a computer user to a server computer wherein the usage data include a plurality of search queries by the user. The server computer using at least some of the Internet usage data identifies search queries in the plurality of search queries that meet predefined query selection criteria for queries that correspond to continuing interests of the user reruns at least some of the identified search queries and evaluates search results from the rerun queries to select search results that meet predefined search result selection criteria. The client computer is configured to receive links corresponding to at least some of the selected search results from the server computer and display at least some of the received links.

Another aspect of the invention involves a computer program product that includes a computer readable storage medium and a computer program mechanism embedded therein. The computer program mechanism includes instructions which when executed by a server computer cause the server computer to access Internet usage data for a computer user wherein the usage data include a plurality of search queries by the user using at least some of the Internet usage data identify search queries in the plurality of search queries that meet predefined query selection criteria for queries that correspond to continuing interests of the user and rerun at least some of the identified search queries.

Another aspect of the invention involves a computer program product that includes a computer readable storage medium and a computer program mechanism embedded therein. The computer program mechanism includes instructions which when executed by a client computer cause the client computer to send Internet usage data for a computer user to a server computer wherein the usage data include a plurality of search queries by the user. The server computer using at least some of the Internet usage data identifies search queries in the plurality of search queries that meet predefined query selection criteria for queries that correspond to continuing interests of the user reruns at least some of the identified search queries and evaluates search results from the rerun queries to select search results that meet predefined search result selection criteria. The computer program mechanism also includes instructions which when executed by the client computer cause the client computer to receive links corresponding to at least some of the selected search results from the server computer and display at least some of the received links.

Another aspect of the invention involves a server computer with means for accessing Internet usage data for a computer user wherein the usage data include a plurality of search queries by the user using at least some of the Internet usage data means for identifying search queries in the plurality of search queries that meet predefined query selection criteria for queries that correspond to continuing interests of the user and means for rerunning at least some of the identified search queries.

Another aspect of the invention involves a client computer with means for sending Internet usage data for a computer user to a server computer wherein the usage data include a plurality of search queries by the user. The server computer using at least some of the Internet usage data identifies search queries in the plurality of search queries that meet predefined query selection criteria for queries that correspond to continuing interests of the user reruns at least some of the identified search queries and evaluates search results from the rerun queries to select search results that meet predefined search result selection criteria. The client computer also has means for receiving links corresponding to at least some of the selected search results from the server computer and means for displaying at least some of the received links.

Another aspect of the invention involves a system that includes at least one server. The at least one server is configured to produce search results by rerunning a plurality of search queries that have been performed previously for a computer user evaluate the produced search results to select search results that meet predefined search result selection criteria wherein at least one of the criteria is based on Internet usage data for the user and send links corresponding to at least some of the selected search results to a computer associated with the user for display.

Another aspect of the invention involves a computer program product that includes a computer readable storage medium and a computer program mechanism embedded therein. The computer program mechanism includes instructions which when executed by a server computer cause the server computer to produce search results by rerunning a plurality of search queries that have been performed previously for a computer user evaluate the produced search results to select search results that meet predefined search result selection criteria wherein at least one of the criteria is based on Internet usage data for the user and send links corresponding to at least some of the selected search results to a computer associated with the user for display.

Another aspect of the invention involves a server computer with means for producing search results by rerunning a plurality of search queries that have been performed previously for a computer user means for evaluating the produced search results to select search results that meet predefined search result selection criteria wherein at least one of the criteria is based on Internet usage data for the user and means for sending links corresponding to at least some of the selected search results to a computer associated with the user for display.

Thus the present invention provides improved methods systems and user interfaces for alerting a computer user to new results for a prior search.

Methods systems user interfaces and other aspects of the invention are described. Reference will be made to certain embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. While the invention will be described in conjunction with the embodiments it will be understood that it is not intended to limit the invention to these particular embodiments alone. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents that are within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

Moreover in the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the invention may be practiced without these particular details. In other instances methods procedures components and networks that are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art are not described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the present invention.

Search engine generates search results in response to search queries from one or more clients and also provides alerts to new results for some prior searches. It should be appreciated that the layout of the search engine system is merely exemplary and may take on any other suitable layout or configuration. The search engine system is used to search an index of documents such as billions of web pages or other documents indexed by modern search engines.

Note that the search engine system can be used as an Internet search engine for locating documents on the WWW and or as an intranet search engine for locating documents stored on servers or other hosts within an intranet. In addition the methodology described herein is applicable to implementations where only portions of documents such as titles and abstracts are stored in a database e.g. of the search engine system .

The search engine system may include multiple data centers each housing a backend. The data centers are generally widely dispersed from one another such as across the continental United States. Search queries submitted by users at one of the clients to the search engine system are routed to an appropriate backend as part of the Domain Name System DNS based on current load geographic locality and or whether that data center is operating.

Each backend preferably includes multiple query servers such as query server coupled to a communications network via a network communication module . The communications network may be the Internet but may also be any local area network LAN and or wide area network WAN . In some embodiments each query server is a Web server that receives search query requests and delivers search results and alerts to new results for some prior searches in the form of web pages or feeds via HTTP XML RSS or similar protocols. Alternatively if the query server is used within an intranet it may be an intranet server. In essence the query servers such as query server are configured to control the search and alert processes including searching a document index analyzing and formatting the search results.

The query server typically includes a network communications module a query receipt processing and response module a user information processing module and a history module all interconnected. The network communications module connects the query server to the communication network and enables the receipt of communications from the communication network and the provision of communications to the communication network bound for the client or other destinations. The query receipt processing and response module is primarily responsible for receiving search queries processing them and returning responses and alerts to the client via the network communications module . In some embodiments the history module maintains a record of queries submitted by users. In some embodiments the history module maintains a record of search results sent to the users independent of whether the users selected the results for viewing or downloading. In some embodiments the history module also maintains a record of search results selected by the users for viewing or downloading sometimes called click through information. The click through information may include statistical information including the number of times that each search result was clicked through and or the number of times each search result was viewed by users for more than a threshold period of time i.e. the number of times the users clicked through each search result without navigating away from the resulting page or document in less than the threshold period of time .

The user information processing module assists in accessing updating and modifying the user information database . The user information database stores various information about the user s activities in a user record described below . In addition the user information database may store derived information about the user based on the user s activities. In some embodiments the user information database stores user profiles a portion of which are the derived information. The other databases optionally include other databases with which the various modules in query server may interact such as a message database electronic or otherwise and user created document databases e.g. documents created from word processing programs spreadsheet programs or other various applications .

The query processing controller is connected to an inverse document index a document database and a query cache . The cache is used to temporarily store search queries and search results and is used to serve search results for queries submitted multiple times e.g. by multiple users . The inverse document index and document database are sometimes collectively called the document database. In some embodiments searching the document database means searching the inverse document index to identify documents matching a specified search query or term.

Search rank values for the documents in the search results are conveyed to the query processing controller and or the query server and are used to construct various lists such as a list of ordered search results a personalized list of recommended web pages or a list of new results for one or more prior searches by a user. Once the query processing controller constructs the list the query processing controller may transmit to the document database a request for snippets of an appropriate subset of the documents in the list. For example the query processing controller may request snippets for the first fifteen or so of the documents in the list. In some embodiments the document database constructs snippets based on the search query and returns the snippets to the query processing controller . The query processing controller then returns a list of located documents with their associated links i.e. hyperlinks and snippets back to the query server . In some embodiments the snippets are stored in the cache server along with the search results. As a result in these embodiments the query processing controller may only request snippets for documents if any for which it is unable to obtain valid cached snippets from the cache server .

In some embodiments fewer and or additional modules functions or databases are included in the search engine . The modules shown in as being part of search engine represent functions performed in an exemplary embodiment.

Although portrays discrete blocks the figure is intended more as a functional description of some embodiments of the invention rather than a structural description of the functional elements. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that an actual implementation might have the functional elements grouped or split among various components. For example the user information database may be part of the query server . In some embodiments the user information database may be implemented using one or more servers whose primary function is to store and process user information. Similarly the document database may be implemented on one or more servers whose primary purpose is to store various documents. Moreover one or more of the blocks in may be implemented on one or more servers designed to provide the described functionality. Although the description herein refers to certain features implemented in the client and certain features implemented in the search system the embodiments of the invention are not limited to such distinctions. For example features described herein as being part of the search system could be implemented in whole or in part in the client and vice versa.

In some embodiments the query server includes the following elements or a subset of such elements a query receipt processing and response module for receiving and responding to search queries for providing alerts to new results for one or more prior searches and for managing the processing of search queries by one or more query processing controllers such as query processing controller that are coupled to the query server a user information and processing module for accessing and modifying the user information database which includes one or more user records described in more detail in below and a history module for processing and handling requests for searching a user s online history e.g. the user s prior queries sent URLs query result click throughs and visited URLs . In some embodiments the query server and or the user information database include additional modules.

Each of the above identified modules and applications in correspond to a set of instructions for performing a function described above. These modules i.e. sets of instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules and thus various subsets of these modules may be combined or otherwise re arranged in various embodiments. In some embodiments memories and may store a subset of the modules and data structures identified above. Furthermore memories and may store additional modules and data structures not described above.

Although show search engine and client as a number of discrete items are intended more as a functional description of the various features which may be present in search engine and client rather than as a structural schematic of the embodiments described herein. In practice and as recognized by those of ordinary skill in the art items shown separately could be combined and some items could be separated. For example some items shown separately in could be implemented on single servers and single items could be implemented by one or more servers. The actual number of servers in search engine and how features are allocated among them will vary from one implementation to another and may depend in part on the amount of data traffic that the system must handle during peak usage periods as well as during average usage periods.

In some embodiments one or more of the query events and one or more of the result clicks include a query portion which includes zero or more query terms associated with the recorded event. In some embodiments the query portion indicates the query string to which the event is associated e.g. what query produced the results that the user clicked though . In some embodiments the query portion includes a pointer or identifier to the query event associated with the result click e.g. an eventID . In some embodiments the query portion may additionally identify a related query . For example the related query may be a query related to an initial query that contains a misspelling. In some instances is it more desirable to associate the event with the corrected query rather than the query containing the spelling mistake. In some embodiments the search system may generate related queries automatically based on the user s entered query.

In some embodiments one or more of the queries result clicks and or browsing data include one or more contentIDs that identify content associated with the particular event. For a query the contentIDs can represent the URLs or URIs Uniform Resource Identifier of search results that have been sent to the user. For a result click the contentID can represent the URL or URI that has been clicked on by the user. For browsing event the contentID can be the content identifier used to identify the location of the browse event e.g. URL data location or other similar identifier . In some embodiments the contentID may be a document identifier that identifies a document in a document repository.

In some embodiments the event based data has a history score . An event s history score may be calculated in any of a number of different ways or combinations of ways. For example the history score may be a time based ranking value that may be periodically modified based on a length of time that has passed since the event was recorded. In some embodiments the value of the history score decreases as the time from the recordation increases. In some embodiments event data having a time based ranking value below a threshold may be deleted. The values can be determined and re determined periodically at various points in time. In some cases removal of one or more events triggers a re determination of one or more derived values as described above. In some embodiments the history score is determined in response to a request instead of being determined during batch or off line processing.

In some embodiments a browsing event indicates a particular browsing event not associated with a query but instead with some other user activity e.g. user selection of a link in a web page or an email message or a word processing document . This other user activity can be identified in an information field . In some embodiments the information field stores ranking values associated with the event. Such ranking values can be system generated user created or user modified e.g. PageRank for URLs or a value assigned to the event by the user . Other examples of user activity include but are not limited to web browsing emailing instant messaging word processing participation in chat rooms software application execution and Internet telephone calls.

In some embodiments derived data includes one or more information fields containing information derived from the event based data . For example in some embodiments the information field represents a user profile which is generated from one or more of the user s query events results click events and browsing events . For example by examining one or more of the various events a user profile may be created indicating levels of interest in various topic categories e.g. a weighted set of Open Directory Project http dmoz.org topics .

In some embodiments the derived data includes one or more pairs of a score associated with particular contentID . The score represents a derived score assigned to the content associated with the contentID e.g. a web page . The score can be based on one or more of a number of different factors. In some embodiments the score incorporates the number of times that a user has clicked on the contentID over a period of time which may include click throughs as a result of search queries and or browsing activities . In some embodiments the score incorporates a time duration that the user is estimated to have been looking at the content a stay time . In some embodiments the score incorporates a time since the user last viewed the content. In some embodiments the score may be modified based on user activities. In some embodiments the score is negatively affected if the user is presented the content in a series of search results but fails to select the content from the results page. In some embodiments the score is positively affected when the user visits locations or pages or clicks on results that are similar to the content. Similarity can be determined by a number of well known techniques e.g. text classifier ODP categorization link structure URL edit distance etc. . In some embodiments a site is defined as a logically related group of pages or physically related pages such as pages belonging to the same URL or related URLs. In some embodiments the score incorporates the number of past queries of the user for which the content was presented e.g. a higher number of times certain content is presented to the user correlates with a higher score . In some embodiments the score incorporates the number of past queries of the user for which related content was presented e.g. a higher number of times related content is presented to the user as a result of the user s queries correlates with a higher score . In some embodiments derived data includes aggregate scores. For example the same query may be generated by the user multiple times and in some embodiments each occurrence will have a different eventID. Accordingly in some embodiments an aggregate score is maintained for events that occur multiple times. The aggregate score can be computed by any of a number of different methods. A reference to the multiple events and to the aggregate score can be maintained in the derived data .

In some embodiments prior to sending Internet usage data for a computer user client receives login information for the user such as a username and password and sends the information to search engine via communications network . Search engine receives and verifies the login information thereby enabling search engine to associate subsequent data received from client e.g. Internet usage data such as event based data with a particular user record in user information database . In some embodiments the user may be identified using a cookie stored on the client or by a user identifier that is stored by and associated with a browser toolbar or browser extension. In some embodiments the user may pre approve the use of the user s Internet usage data.

Query server in search engine accesses Internet usage data for a computer user e.g. data in user record . The usage data include a plurality of search queries by the user e.g. queries in query events . In some embodiments the Internet usage data are grouped into query sessions as described below.

Using at least some of the Internet usage data query server identifies search queries in the plurality of search queries that meet predefined query selection criteria for queries that correspond to continuing interests of the user. In some embodiments the identifying of search queries is performed without explicit input from the user identifying search queries that are continuing interests of the user. In some embodiments the predefined query selection criteria include a score derived from a combination of at least some of the Internet usage data.

To see how the user s Internet usage data can be used to identify the user s continuing interests consider the sample query session in Table 1.

The user initially submitted the query html encode java presumably to find out how to encode html in a java program. After 8 seconds of browsing the search results she clicks on the second result presented and remains viewing that page for 91 seconds. She then returns to the results page and views the first result for 247 seconds. Finally she views the 8th result for 12 seconds. She then performs a next page navigation meaning that she views the next page of results starting at position 11. She views the 12th result for a long time 1019 seconds. However perhaps because she is still unable to find a satisfactory result she submits the query refinement html encode java utility she is explicitly looking for an existing java utility that will allow her to encode html. After a single result click for 32 seconds the user looks at the next page of results ranked 11 20 and immediately looks at the following page of results ranked 21 30. She then ends the query session.

How can query server determine whether the user found what she was looking for and how interested she is in seeing new results First it would appear that the user was interested in finding an answer since she spent a considerable amount of time in the session viewed a number of pages and performed a large number of refinements query refinements next pages etc. . Second query server might also guess that the user did not find what she was looking for because the session ended with her looking at a number of search results pages but not actually clicking on anything. Finally it is not as clear what the duration of the user s information need is. However because this query topic seems to address a work related need query server might guess that the user needs to find a solution immediately or in the near future. Thus from this example we can see how query server might determine search queries that correspond to continuing interests with signals such as duration of the session number of actions ordering of actions and so on.

In some embodiments rather than focusing on individual queries which may be related to one another query server evaluates a query session i.e. all actions associated with a given initial query. Such actions can include result clicks spelling corrections viewing additional pages of results and query refinements. A query is a query refinement of the previous query if both queries contain at least one common term. Here we will use the term refinement to more broadly refer to spelling corrections next pages and query refinements.

If query server evaluates a user s continuing interest in a query session rather than a specific query it needs to determine the actual query to make recommendations for. A session may consist of many query refinements so which should be used In some embodiments query server uses the query refinement that is directly followed by the largest number of result clicks. If two or more query refinements are tied with respect to number of result clicks then query server chooses the refinement for which the total duration of clicks is longest. For example in the query session shown in Table 1 query server will register the query html encode java because it has four result clicks while html encode java utility has only one.

Query selection criteria that query server can use to identify queries that correspond to continuing interests of the user include without limitation the following Internet usage data of the user 

In some embodiments an interest score for query sessions is defined that correlates with the continuing interest the user has in a query session. In some embodiments the interest score is given by log clicks refinements log repetitions history match score where a b and c are constants. It should be clear that this score is merely exemplary. Other scores can be constructed where higher score values correlate with higher continuing user interest. In some embodiments the predefined query selection criteria for queries that correspond to continuing interests of the user may require that the interest score be above a threshold value.

In some embodiments Boolean criteria e.g. threshold conditions are not incorporated into the interest score but can still be used as part of the query selection criteria.

Query server reruns at least some of the identified search queries. In some embodiments the rerunning is performed automatically by search engine at predefined times. In some embodiments the predefined times include the times of periodic events e.g. monthly weekly daily twice per day hourly or the like or the times of episodic events e.g. in response to the occurrence of any one of a predefined set of trigger conditions such as when the user logs in to the search engine or to another server or service .

Prior to sending Internet usage data for a computer user client receives login information for the user such as a username and password and sends the information to search engine via communications network . Search engine receives and verifies the login information thereby enabling search engine to associate subsequent data received from client e.g. Internet usage data such as event based data with a particular user record in user information database . In some embodiments the user may pre approve the use of the user s Internet usage data.

Query server in search engine produces search results by rerunning a plurality of search queries that have been performed previously for a computer user e.g. one or more of the queries in query events in user record .

Query server evaluates the produced search results to select search results that meet predefined search result selection criteria. At least one of the criteria is based on Internet usage data for the user e.g. data such as event based data for the user . In some embodiments the criteria include a requirement that selected search results are not present in query event data for the user. In some embodiments the criteria include a requirement that selected search results are not present in the Internet usage data for the user. In some embodiments the predefined search result selection criteria identify search results deemed likely to be relevant to the computer user.

In some embodiments a quality score for the search results is defined that correlates with search results deemed likely to be relevant to the computer user. In some embodiments the quality score is given by PR score rank where a and b are constants In some embodiments because initial data indicated that rank may be inversely correlated with relevance to the user the quality score is given by PR score 1 rank where c and d are constants 

It should be clear that these quality scores are merely exemplary. Other scores can be constructed where higher score values correlate with higher likelihood of relevance to the user. In some embodiments the predefined result selection criteria for results that correspond to relevant new pages to the user may require that the quality score be above a threshold value.

In some embodiments Boolean criterion e.g. above dropoff whether the PR scores were above a threshold value and or whether the new result appeared in the top N e.g. N 3 are not incorporated into the quality score but can still be used as part of the result selection criteria.

Query server sends links corresponding to at least some of the selected search results to a computer associated with the user for display such as the client that the user has used for login. In some embodiments the links are sent without explicit input from the user requesting the selected search results.

In some embodiments the links are displayed in a web page that is separate from a search result web page. In some embodiments the links are displayed in a search result history web page. In some embodiments the links are displayed in a web page e.g. a home web page login splash page or other web page personalized to the user. In some embodiments the links are part of an RSS feed and are displayed using an RSS reader or other compatible interface. In some embodiments information about the previous query e.g. the query terms and the date of the previous query is displayed near the corresponding recommended link so that the user can recognize the context for the recommendation. In some embodiments there is a link e.g. one or more of query terms that the user can click on to re run the corresponding previous query. In some embodiments additional information about the new search result such as a snippet of text from the new result is displayed near the corresponding recommended link to help the user decide whether to click on the link.

Query server will also receive implicit user feedback in the form of clicks on recommended links. Such data can be incorporated into a feedback loop to refine and adjust subsequent recommendations.

Prior to sending Internet usage data for a computer user client receives login information for the user such as a username and password and sends the information to search engine via communications network . Search engine receives and verifies the login information thereby enabling search engine to associate subsequent data received from client e.g. Internet usage data such as event based data with a particular user record in user information database . In some embodiments the user may pre approve the use of the user s Internet usage data.

Client sends Internet usage data for a computer user to a server computer such as query server in search engine via communications network . The Internet usage data include a plurality of search queries by the user e.g. queries in query events . In some embodiments the Internet usage data include one or more of the top N search results produced in response to each search query and click data indicating users selections clicks of search results and URL visit duration times of the user on each user selected search result. In some embodiments the Internet usage data are grouped into query sessions. In some embodiments client is the computer used by the user to enter login information for the search engine . In some embodiments the user has previously registered with the search engine .

Accessing and using at least some of the Internet usage data query server identifies search queries in the plurality of search queries that meet predefined query selection criteria for queries that correspond to continuing interests of the user. In some embodiments the identifying of search queries is performed without explicit input from the user identifying search queries that are continuing interests of the user. In some embodiments the predefined query selection criteria include a score derived from a combination of at least some of the Internet usage data.

Query server reruns at least some of the identified search queries. In some embodiments the rerunning is performed automatically by search engine at predefined times. In some embodiments the predefined times include the times of periodic events e.g. monthly weekly daily twice per day hourly or the like or the times of episodic events e.g. in response to the occurrence of any one of a predefined set of trigger conditions such as when the user logs in .

Query server evaluates search results from the rerun queries to select search results that meet predefined search result selection criteria. In some embodiments the predefined search result selection criteria identify search results deemed likely to be relevant to the computer user.

Query server sends links corresponding to at least some of the selected search results to a computer associated with the user for display such as the client that the user has used for login. In some embodiments the links are sent without explicit input from the user requesting the selected search results. In some instances only the X highest ranked links are sent where X is an integer e.g. a number between 1 and 10 that is either predefined or chosen based on various system features e.g. the type of client device or the size of the display or display region in which the response is to be shown or user preferences.

Client receives links corresponding to at least some of the selected search results from query server and displays at least some of the received links e.g. as shown in . In some embodiments the links are displayed in a web page that is separate from a search result web page. In some embodiments the links are displayed in a search result history web page. In some embodiments the links are displayed in a web page e.g. a home web page login splash page or other web page personalized to the user. In some embodiments the links are part of an RSS feed and are displayed using an RSS reader or other compatible interface. In some embodiments information about the previous query e.g. the query terms and the date of the previous query is displayed near the corresponding recommended link so that the user can recognize the context for the recommendation. In some embodiments additional information about the new search result such as a snippet of text from the new result is displayed near the corresponding recommended link to help the user decide whether to click on the link.

Query server will also receive implicit user feedback in the form of clicks on recommended links. Such data can be incorporated into a feedback loop to refine and adjust subsequent recommendations.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

