---

title: Visual and auditory user notification methods for smart-home hazard detector
abstract: Hazard detector for providing a pre-alarm of a developing hazardous condition includes a detection module that detects a hazard level of smoke or carbon monoxide, a storage module that stores a pre-alarm threshold and an emergency threshold, a light source that generates light in a first color, a second color, and a third color, a speaker that generates an audible sound, a horn that generates an audible alarm that a higher volume than the speaker, and a processing module. The processing module receives the detected hazard level and compares it with the pre-alarm threshold and the emergency threshold. The processing module determines that the hazard level is greater than the pre-alarm threshold and less than the emergency threshold and generates an audible pre-alarm speech via the speaker that warns of the developing hazardous condition. The processing module also activates the light source in the second color.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09430933&OS=09430933&RS=09430933
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09430933
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141007
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 887 963 filed Oct. 7 2013 entitled HAZARD DETECTION IN A SMART SENSORED HOME and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 887 969 filed Oct. 7 2013 entitled USER FRIENDLY DETECTION UNIT the entire disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

The present invention generally relates to hazard detection. More specifically the present invention relates to hazard detection units that provide pre alarms for developing hazardous conditions.

Hazard detectors use a variety of sensors to detect substances in the air that are harmful or indicate the development of a hazardous situation. For example carbon monoxide CO and radon gas are substances that can be harmful to humans and animals if exposed to high amounts. However these substances are difficult to detect with the human senses because they are colorless odorless and tasteless. A hazard detector can detect the presence of these substances and prevent the harmful effects of exposure by alarming a user. In other instances a substance such as smoke while not necessarily harmful in and of itself can indicate the development of a hazardous situation such as fire.

Hazard detectors are certified under standards defined by a governing body such as the Occupational Safety and Health Administration OSHA or companies that perform safety testing such as Underwriters Laboratories UL . For example UL defines thresholds for when smoke detectors and CO detectors should sound an alarm. UL also defines the characteristics of the alarm such as the volume pitch and pattern of the sound.

In one embodiment a hazard detector for providing a pre alarm of a developing hazardous condition is presented. The hazard detector includes a detection module a storage module a light source a speaker a horn and a processing module. The processing module is coupled to the detection module the storage module the light source the speaker and the horn. The detection module is configured to detect a hazard level that indicates an amount of smoke or carbon monoxide CO present at the hazard detector. The storage module is configured to store a pre alarm threshold and an emergency threshold. The pre alarm threshold is less than the emergency threshold. The light source is configured to generate light in a first color a second color and a third color. The second color is between the first color and the third color on the color spectrum. The speaker is configured to generate an audible sound and the horn is configured to generate an audible alarm at a higher volume than the speaker.

The processing module is configured to receive the detected hazard level from the detection module. The processing module compares the detected hazard level with the pre alarm threshold and the emergency threshold and determines that the detected hazard level is greater than the pre alarm threshold and less than the emergency threshold. An audible pre alarm speech is generated via the speaker in response to determining that the detected hazard level is greater than the pre alarm threshold and less than the emergency threshold. The audible pre alarm speech includes content that warns of the developing hazardous condition. The processing module further activates the light source in the second color in response to determining that the detected hazard level is greater than the pre alarm threshold and less than the emergency threshold.

In another embodiment a method is presented for providing a pre alarm of a developing hazardous condition. The method includes detecting a first hazard level that indicates an amount of smoke or CO present at a hazard detector. The first hazard level is compared with an emergency threshold and it is determined that the first hazard level is greater than the emergency threshold. A horn that generates an audible alarm is activated in response to determining that the first hazard level is greater than the emergency threshold. Further a first light source that generates a red colored light is activated in response to determining that the first hazard level is greater than the emergency threshold.

A second hazard level is detected and is compared with the emergency threshold. It is determined that the second hazard level is less than the emergency threshold. The second hazard level is compared with a pre alarm threshold that is less than the emergency threshold and it is determined that the second hazard level is greater than the pre alarm threshold. A second light source that generates a yellow colored light is activated in response to determining that the second hazard level is greater than the pre alarm threshold and less than the emergency threshold. Further a speaker that generates an audible pre alarm speech at a lower volume than the horn is activated in response to determining that the second hazard level is greater than the pre alarm threshold and less than the emergency threshold. The audible pre alarm speech includes content that warns of the developing hazardous condition.

In a further embodiment a non transitory computer readable medium is presented. The computer readable medium has instructions stored therein which when executed cause a computer to perform a set of operations. The set of operations include detecting a hazard level that indicates an amount of smoke or CO present at a hazard detector. The hazard level is compared with an emergency threshold and it is determined that the hazard level is less than the emergency threshold. The set of operations further include comparing the hazard level with a pre alarm threshold that is less than the emergency threshold and determining that the hazard level is greater than the pre alarm threshold. A light source that generates light in a first color a second color and a third color is activated in response to determining that the hazard level is greater than the pre alarm threshold and less than the emergency threshold. The light source is activated in the second color which is between the first color and the third color on the color spectrum. A speaker that generates an audible pre alarm speech is also activated in response to determining that the hazard level is greater than the pre alarm threshold and less than the emergency threshold. The audible pre alarm speech includes content that warns of a developing hazardous condition.

In one embodiment a hazard detector for providing a pre alarm of a developing hazardous condition is presented. The hazard detector includes means for detecting a hazard level that indicates an amount of smoke or CO present at a hazard detector. The hazard detector further includes means for comparing the hazard level with an emergency threshold means for determining that the hazard level is less than the emergency threshold means for comparing the hazard level with a pre alarm threshold that is less than the emergency threshold and means for determining that the hazard level is greater than the pre alarm threshold. The hazard detector also includes means for generating light in a first color a second color and a third color in response to determining that the hazard level is greater than the pre alarm threshold and less than the emergency threshold. The second color is between the first color and the third color on the color spectrum. The hazard detector further includes means for generating an audible pre alarm speech in response to determining that the hazard level is greater than the pre alarm threshold and less than the emergency threshold. The audible pre alarm speech includes content that warns of a developing hazardous condition.

The ensuing description provides preferred exemplary embodiment s only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the disclosure. Rather the ensuing description of the preferred exemplary embodiment s will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing a preferred exemplary embodiment. It is understood that various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit and scope as set forth in the appended claims.

Conventional hazard detectors operate solely based on thresholds set by the standards of governing bodies and safety testing companies. The thresholds define a level or amount for each hazardous substance at which an alarm should be sounded. These conventional hazard detectors are limited and simplistic in operation. For example their mode of operation is binary either sound the alarm or do not sound the alarm and the decision of whether to sound the alarm is based on readings from only one type of sensor. Several disadvantages are associated with these simple and conventional hazard detectors. For example users are often subjected to false alarms caused by conditions that are not actually hazardous. Alternatively conventional hazard detectors sometimes fail to sound the alarm for truly hazardous conditions that warrant genuine concern because the standardized thresholds for triggering the alarm have not been met.

The embodiments of the invention described herein below overcome the disadvantages of the prior art by providing a hazard detector that gives a pre alarm Heads Up notification of a developing hazardous condition. The embodiments include a hazard detector that compares a detected hazard level with a pre alarm threshold and an emergency threshold. In one embodiment the emergency threshold corresponds to a threshold defined by a standard and the pre alarm threshold is less than the emergency threshold. If it is determined that the detected hazard level is greater than the pre alarm threshold and less than the emergency threshold a speaker is activated to generate a pre alarm speech at a lower volume than the alarm. A light source is also activated in a less concerning color than the color of the light that is activated for alarms.

The depicted enclosure includes a plurality of rooms separated at least partly from each other via walls . The walls can include interior walls or exterior walls. Each room can further include a floor and a ceiling . Devices can be mounted on integrated with and or supported by a wall floor or ceiling . Further the smart home environment can include devices outside of the actual enclosure such as a pool heater or irrigation system.

The smart home environment includes a plurality of intelligent multi sensing network connected devices hereinafter referred to as the smart devices that can integrate seamlessly with each other and with a computer server system such as a cloud computing system. The smart devices can include smart thermostats smart hazard detectors smart entryway devices e.g. doorbells or intercoms smart wall switches smart wall plug interfaces and smart appliances such as refrigerators stoves and or ovens televisions washers dryers lights stereos intercom systems garage door openers floor fans ceiling fans wall air conditioners pool heaters irrigation systems security systems and so forth.

Any of the smart devices in the smart home environment can include any number of sensors. For example smart appliances can include sensors that detect when they are being used. Additionally a motion or occupancy sensor such as an ultrasonic passive infrared PIR or optical sensor can be included in any of the smart devices to detect user activity and movement. Some smart devices will also have sensors specific to the device. For example a smart light can include an ambient light sensor such as a photoresistor or a single pixel sensor that measures light in the room. Smart hazard detectors can include smoke fire heat sensors carbon monoxide dioxide sensors radon gas detectors ambient light sensors temperature sensors humidity sensors and the like. Any smart device can also include a processor for processing data from the sensors or other devices.

Each smart device is also equipped with communications ports or transceivers for communicating data with other smart devices. In one embodiment the devices establish a mesh network for communication between devices. In another embodiment the devices can connect via a router or gateway to a private network or the internet including any computer server system and computing device that is connected to the same network. Data can be transferred via any wireless e.g. Wi Fi ZigBee 6LoWPAN etc. or wired CAT6 Ethernet HomePlug etc. protocols.

By virtue of network connectivity one or more of the smart devices can further allow a user to interact with the device even if the user is not proximate to the device. For example a user can communicate with a device using a computer e.g. a desktop computer or mobile device e.g. a smartphone laptop computer or tablet . A webpage or native mobile app can be configured to receive input from the user and control the device based on the input. The webpage or mobile app can also present information about the device s operation to the user. For example the user can view the status of a smart hazard detector or a history of notifications generated by the smart hazard detector. The user can be in the enclosure during this remote communication or outside the enclosure.

The computer server system can further provide one or more services . The services can include customized hazard notifications software updates customer support sensor data collection logging remote access remote or distributed control or use suggestions e.g. based on collected home data to improve performance reduce utility cost etc. . To facilitate these services users can register the smart devices in their home or enclosure with the computer server system . Computer server system can associate the smart devices with an account during the registration process. The account can be user specific or specific to a home or enclosure that includes multiple users and a unique identification of each smart device can be stored in the account. In one embodiment the user s mobile device or other computing device can also be associated with the account during registration. In another embodiment one or more username and password is associated with the account during registration. The user can then use the username and password to log in on the mobile or computing device and computer server system can use the account to authorize the user s mobile or computing device for the services . Any identifying information can be used to log in and authorize users and their computing devices. For example the mobile or computing device can include a fingerprint scanner and the user logs in using their fingerprint. Data associated with the services such as account data can be stored at the computer server system .

System includes a processing engine which can be concentrated at a single server or distributed among several different computing entities without limitation. A single server can also include multiple engines for performing different processing tasks. The processing engine can receive data from smart devices index and store the data or process the data to generate customized notifications or statistics. The processed data can be stored as derived home data . Results of the processing can be transmitted back to the device that provided the home data to other devices to a server providing a webpage to a user of the device or to other non device entities. For example hazard events generated by smart hazard detectors can be received and processed by the processing engine before being transmitted to a user device via the Internet . In this manner the processing engine can be configured and programmed to derive a variety of useful information from the home data .

In some embodiments to encourage innovation and research and to increase products and services available to users system provides application programming interfaces APIs to third parties such as charities governmental entities e.g. emergency response units such as a fire department or police department the Food and Drug Administration or the Environmental Protection Agency academic institutions e.g. university researchers businesses e.g. security or fire monitoring service providers social network providers device warranty or equipment service providers or providers of targeted advertisements based on home data utility companies and other third parties. The APIs permit third party systems to communicate with the computer server system providing access to the services the processing engine the home data and the derived home data . This allows third party applications to submit specific data processing tasks to the computer server system and receive dynamic updates to the home data and the derived home data . For example a fire department or fire monitoring service provider can develop applications using the APIs to provide emergency response services to users.

In other embodiments the services can utilize third party APIs to communicate with third party applications. For example if a smart hazard detector is triggered a hazard event can be transmitted to an emergency response system such as one provided by a fire department using an API of the emergency response system. Third party APIs can also be used to collect user data and user activity data from third parties. For example an API of a social network provider can be utilized to gather user activity data for a user.

System includes processing engine which further includes a number of paradigms . Processing engine can include a managed services paradigm that monitors and manages device functions such as ensuring proper operation of a device responding to emergency situations or detecting failure of equipment coupled to the device e.g. a burned out light bulb . Processing engine can further include an advertising communication paradigm that identifies characteristics e.g. demographic information of a user or products of interest to a user based on device usage. Processing engine can further include a social paradigm that collects data from and transmits data to a social network. For example a user s status as reported on the social network can be collected and processed to determine user activity.

The processing engine can also utilize extrinsic information with the processing paradigms. Extrinsic information can be used to interpret data received from a smart device to determine a characteristic of the environment near the smart device e.g. outside an enclosure that contains the smart device to determine services or products available to the user to identify a social network or social network information to determine contact information of entities e.g. public service entities such as an emergency response team the police or a hospital near the smart device or to identify statistical or environmental conditions trends or other information associated with a home or neighborhood.

In one embodiment hazard detector is a roughly square or rectangular shaped object having a width of approximately 120 to 134 mm and a thickness of approximately 38 mm. Hazard detector includes a mounting plate that can be attached to a wall or ceiling and a back plate that can be mounted to the mounting plate . Hazard detector further includes a front casing that can be secured to the back plate to define a housing with an interior region for containing the components of the hazard detector .

A circuit board can be attached to the back plate and various components can be mounted to the circuit board . For example a smoke chamber can be mounted on circuit board and configured to detect the presence of smoke. In one embodiment smoke chamber can be mid mounted relative to circuit board so that air can flow into smoke chamber from above the circuit board and below the circuit board . A speaker and alarm device not numbered such as a horn can also be mounted on circuit board to audibly warn an occupant of a potential fire danger when the presence of smoke is detected in the smoke chamber . Other components such as a motion sensor e.g. ultrasonic passive IR etc. carbon monoxide sensor temperature sensor heat sensor ambient light sensor noise sensor one or more microprocessors and the like may likewise be mounted on circuit board .

In one embodiment a protective plate can be attached to circuit board to provide a visually pleasing appearance to the inner components of hazard detector or to funnel airflow to smoke chamber . For example when a user views the internal components of hazard detector such as through the vents in back plate protective plate can provide the appearance of a relatively smooth surface and otherwise hide the components or circuitry of circuit board . Protective plate can likewise function to direct air flow from the vents of back plate toward smoke chamber .

Hazard detector can also include a battery pack which can be the main source of power for the various components of hazard detector . In one embodiment battery pack is a backup power source and hazard detector is further coupled with a primary external power source such as a 120 V power source of the home or enclosure. In some embodiments a cover plate can be attached to the front casing to provide a visually pleasing appearance or for other functional purposes. In a specific embodiment cover plate may include a plurality of holes or openings so that the sensors on circuit board can detect external objects. The plurality of openings can be arranged to provide a visually pleasing appearance when viewed. For example the openings can be arranged according to a repeating pattern such as a Fibonacci or other sequence.

A lens button can be coupled with or otherwise mounted to cover plate . Lens button can be transparent allowing the sensors to view through the lens button . For example a PIR sensor not shown can be positioned behind the lens button to detect the activity or movement of a user. In some embodiments lens button can also function as a pressable button for inputting commands such as to shut off a false alarm. A light ring can be positioned distally behind lens button . The light ring can be configured to receive and disperse light e.g. from an LED or other light source so as to provide a desired visual appearance such as a halo behind the lens button . A flexible circuit board that includes one or more electrical components such as a PIR sensor or LEDs can be positioned behind the light ring . Flexible circuit board can be electrically coupled to circuit board enabling data communications with one or more microprocessors mounted on circuit board .

Visual effect represents a rotating effect that can be created when all of light elements and are turned on and off sequentially in a clockwise direction. In one embodiment turning on and off the lights can be done in a gradual fashion. For example light element can gradually turn off and light element gradually turns on while light elements and are turned on at an equal brightness.

Visual effect represents a wave visual effect that can be created when light elements shown in turn on and off in a side to side direction. For example at a given point in time light element is the brightest light elements and are the next brightest and light elements and are the least bright. Shortly thereafter the lights may gradually change brightness in a linear manner such that light elements and are the brightest lights and are the next brightest and light is the least bright.

Visual effect represents a shimmer visual effect that can be created when each of the light elements cycle through a hue range pattern with each light element s hue range pattern being out of sync with all the other lights.

In various embodiments the visual effects described above can be varied in a number of different ways. For example each effect may be animated faster or slower brighter or dimmer for a specific number of animation cycles with only some of the light participating and using different colors e.g. white blue green yellow and red. These visual effects can be generated by a hazard detector for a variety of purposes. For example a specific color animation animation speed etc. or combinations thereof can represent one or more of the following alerts or notifications provided by a hazard detector booting up selecting language ready for connections connected to client button pressed button pressed for test countdown to test test under way test completed pre alarms or Heads Up notifications smoke alarms carbon monoxide alarms heat alarms multi criteria alarms hushed after alarm post alarm problems night light state reset shutdown begin shutdown safely light battery very low battery critical power confirmation and more.

According to this preferred embodiment a bifurcated or hybrid processor circuit topology is used for handling various features of the hazard detector . Low power processor is a relatively small processor that is dedicated to core hazard detection and alarming functionality as would be provided in a conventional hazard detector. High power processor is a relatively large processor that consumes more power than low power processor and handles more advanced features such as cloud communications user interface features occupancy and other environmental tracking features and more generally any other task that would not be considered a core or conventional detection and alarming task.

By way of example and not by way of limitation low power processor can be a Freescale KL 15 microcontroller while high power processor can be a Freescale K60 microcontroller. High power processor is designed to interoperate with and is coupled to low power processor . Low power processor is configured to perform its core safety related functions regardless of the status or state of high power processor . Thus even if high power processor is not available low power processor will continue to perform its core functions to ensure that hazard detector meets all industry and or government safety standards.

Low power processor is coupled to detection module horn and light source . Detection module includes safety sensors such as smoke and CO sensors. Low power processor can poll detection module and activate horn to generate an alarm sound when one or more of safety sensors detect a level of hazardous substance that is greater than or equal to an emergency threshold. Low power processor can also activate light source in a specific color such as red when a hazardous substance is detected.

High power processor is coupled to speaker and light source . High power processor can also receive readings from detection module via low power processor . In other embodiments high power processor is also coupled to detection module and can receive readings directly. If a detected hazard level is less than the emergency threshold high power processor can check if the detected hazard level is greater than or equal to a pre alarm threshold. If the detected hazard level is greater than or equal to the pre alarm threshold high power processor can activate speaker to generate speech that warns of the developing hazardous condition. High power processor can also activate light source in a different color than when emergency levels of hazardous substance is detected. For example light source can be activated in a yellow color if the detected hazard level is greater than or equal to the pre alarm threshold but less than the emergency threshold.

High power processor is also coupled to high power wireless module and low power wireless module . In one embodiment high power wireless module communicates wirelessly with a router or gateway of a local area network. The router or gateway also provides internet access and high power processor can use high power wireless module to transmit a hazard event or some other form of notification to a computer server system if emergency or pre alarm levels of hazardous substance is detected. The computer server system can then transmit the notification to a user s computer or mobile device. Low power wireless module communicates directly with other smart devices via a personal area mesh network. High power processor can use low power wireless module to transmit signals to other smart devices when a hazardous substance is detected and the other devices can also generate alarms or pre alarms depending on the detected hazard level.

High power processor is further coupled to user interface module which can include motion sensors audio sensors cameras and buttons. User interface module receives input from a user which can be in the form of a specific motion a phrase or sound or a button press. The user input is transmitted to high power processor which can then determine which actions need to be taken in response to the user input. For example the user can perform a specific motion such as waving of the hands or press a button to shut off an alarm generated by horn or a pre alarm generated by speaker . In one embodiment only the hazard detector that detected the hazardous substance can receive user input to shut off the alarm or pre alarm. Thus if the user tries to press the button or perform the motion in front of a hazard detector that activated the alarm or pre alarm in response to receiving a signal from another hazard detector the alarm or pre alarm will continue to sound.

Storage module is coupled to high power processor and can be used to store the emergency and pre alarm threshold settings. Storage module can also be coupled to low power processor so that low power processor can retrieve the threshold settings directly. In some embodiments hazard detector further includes heat and humidity sensors that are coupled to high power processor . High power processor can adjust the threshold settings based on readings from the heat and humidity sensors. For example if the heat sensor detects a rate of temperature increase that is greater than a threshold high power processor can decrease the pre alarm or emergency threshold for smoke since fast rising temperatures can indicate fire. If the humidity sensor detects a rise in humidity that is greater than a threshold high power processor can increase the pre alarm or emergency threshold for smoke since rising humidity can indicate steam which causes false alarms.

Referring back to block if the detected hazard level is not greater than the emergency threshold process goes to block to determine if the hazard level is greater than a pre alarm threshold. If the hazard level is not greater than the pre alarm threshold process goes back to block to repeat the process. If the hazard level is greater than the pre alarm threshold a yellow light is activated at block . In other embodiments a spatiotemporal pattern or any of the visual effects described herein above with respect to can also be generated by the yellow light. For example a pulsing effect can be generated by modulating the light source that is generating the yellow light.

At block the speaker is activated if the detected hazard level is greater than the pre alarm threshold. The speaker generates sounds at a lower volume than the horn and can generate a variety of different sounds and sound patterns. In one embodiment the speaker generates a sound pattern with a lower pitch or frequency than an alarm. For example a bell or chime sound can be generated. In other embodiments the speaker generates a pre alarm speech that announces the developing hazardous condition. The speech can also include content such as the type of hazardous substance that was detected the location that it was detected at which can be the name of a room in a house or enclosure and a warning that the alarm may sound. For example the speech can say Heads up. There is smoke in the kitchen. The horn may sound. In one embodiment the light source pulses in synchronization with the speech. For example the light source can be modulated such that the generated light is bright when a syllable or word is announced by the speaker and the light is dim or off between syllables or words.

In one embodiment the light and the speaker also provides notifications for when the hazardous substance is no longer detected. For example the light source can be activated in a green color and the speaker can generate speech that says Smoke has cleared in the kitchen. In another embodiment pre alarm notifications can also be generated when the hazard detector s battery life is low. For example if the battery has less than six months of life remaining or if the battery charge is below a certain threshold such as 25 the users can be informed by a yellow light and or the speaker generating speech that indicates the battery is low and should be replaced.

In further embodiments pre alarm notifications are also generated for other potential threats such as security or structural integrity threats. For example other smart devices or sensors in the home can detect indicators of the threats and transmit a signal to the hazard detector that causes the hazard detector to generate the pre alarm. A pre alarm notification associated with a structural integrity threat can say Heads up water has been detected on the basement floor. Further examples of potential security or structural integrity threats include by way of example that it is past 7 PM and not all of the kids are home yet that a large parcel has been left on the doorstep that a current network intrusion has been detected at the family gaming computer or any of a variety of other predetermined potential security or structural integrity threats for which a trigger conclusion or inference can be established.

A user can input commands into the computer using various input devices such as a mouse keyboard track ball touch screen etc. If the computer system comprises a mainframe a designer can access the computer using for example a terminal or terminal interface. Additionally the computer system may be connected to a printer and a server using a network router which may connect to the Internet or a WAN. While only one server is shown in the figure it is understood that computer system can be connected to any number of servers.

The server may be used to store additional software programs and data. In one embodiment software implementing the systems and methods described herein can be stored on a storage medium in the server . Thus the software can be run from the storage medium in the server . In another embodiment software implementing the systems and methods described herein can be stored on a storage medium in the computer . Thus the software can be run from the storage medium in the computer system . Therefore in this embodiment the software can be used whether or not computer is connected to network router . Printer may be connected directly to computer in which case the computer system can print whether or not it is connected to network router .

Special purpose computer system comprises a computer a monitor coupled to computer one or more additional user output devices optional coupled to computer one or more user input devices e.g. keyboard mouse track ball touch screen coupled to computer an optional communications interface coupled to computer a computer program product stored in a tangible computer readable memory in computer . Computer program product directs system to perform the above described methods. Computer may include one or more processors that communicate with a number of peripheral devices via a bus subsystem . These peripheral devices may include user output device s user input device s communications interface and a storage subsystem such as random access memory RAM and non transitory storage drive e.g. disk drive optical drive solid state drive which are forms of tangible computer readable memory.

Computer program product may be stored in non transitory storage drive or another computer readable medium accessible to computer and loaded into memory . Each processor may comprise a microprocessor such as a microprocessor from Intel or Advanced Micro Devices Inc. or the like. To support computer program product the computer runs an operating system that handles the communications of product with the above noted components as well as the communications between the above noted components in support of the computer program product . Exemplary operating systems include Windows or the like from Microsoft Corporation Solaris from Sun Microsystems LINUX UNIX and the like.

User input devices include all possible types of devices and mechanisms to input information to computer system . These may include a keyboard a keypad a mouse a scanner a digital drawing pad a touch screen incorporated into the display audio input devices such as voice recognition systems microphones and other types of input devices. In various embodiments user input devices are typically embodied as a computer mouse a trackball a track pad a joystick wireless remote a drawing tablet a voice command system. User input devices typically allow a user to select objects icons text and the like that appear on the monitor via a command such as a click of a button or the like. User output devices include all possible types of devices and mechanisms to output information from computer . These may include a display e.g. monitor printers non visual displays such as audio output devices etc.

Communications interface provides an interface to other communication networks and devices and may serve as an interface to receive data from and transmit data to other systems WANs and or the Internet . Embodiments of communications interface typically include an Ethernet card a modem telephone satellite cable ISDN a asynchronous digital subscriber line DSL unit a FireWire interface a USB interface a wireless network adapter and the like. For example communications interface may be coupled to a computer network to a FireWire bus or the like. In other embodiments communications interface may be physically integrated on the motherboard of computer and or may be a software program or the like.

RAM and non transitory storage drive are examples of tangible computer readable media configured to store data such as computer program product embodiments of the present invention including executable computer code human readable code or the like. Other types of tangible computer readable media include floppy disks removable hard disks optical storage media such as CD ROMs DVDs bar codes semiconductor memories such as flash memories read only memories ROMs battery backed volatile memories networked storage devices and the like. RAM and non transitory storage drive may be configured to store the basic programming and data constructs that provide the functionality of various embodiments of the present invention as described above.

Software instruction sets that provide the functionality of the present invention may be stored in RAM and non transitory storage drive . These instruction sets or code may be executed by the processor s . RAM and non transitory storage drive may also provide a repository to store data and data structures used in accordance with the present invention. RAM and non transitory storage drive may include a number of memories including a main random access memory RAM to store instructions and data during program execution and a read only memory ROM in which fixed instructions are stored. RAM and non transitory storage drive may include a file storage subsystem providing persistent non transitory storage of program and or data files. RAM and non transitory storage drive may also include removable storage systems such as removable flash memory.

Bus subsystem provides a mechanism to allow the various components and subsystems of computer to communicate with each other as intended. Although bus subsystem is shown schematically as a single bus alternative embodiments of the bus subsystem may utilize multiple busses or communication paths within the computer .

Preferably the voice advisories during emergency level alerts are interleaved in time during silent periods between loud shrieking tonal alarm patterns so as to comply with regulations such as National Fire Protection Association NFPA and Underwriters Laboratories UL standards that require a maximum silence period between tonal alarm patterns of 1.5 seconds Ref UL2034 UL217 NFPA72 and NFPA720 .

It should be understood that the above detailed illumination states and audio messages are merely exemplary. In various other embodiments the colors animations definitions and or audio messages may be modified.

In order to provide input to various embodiments of the hazard detectors detailed herein it may be possible to perform a gesture to provide input which may result in silencing nuisance alarms that is alarms triggered by a non hazardous condition e.g. burning toast . Within a distance of approximately 2 6 feet of the hazard detector a wave of a user s hand and arm can be detected. In some embodiments multiple waves must be performed for the gesture to be detected. As detailed in relation to some of the pre alert or alert states may silenced at least temporarily by using a wave gesture. In some situations as noted in certain situations preclude the alarm from being silenced. A wave gesture can also be used for canceling a manual test and or to hear a detailed message when a visual status is being presented via illumination. In some embodiments rather than performing a gesture a user may push a button or physically actuate some other part of the hazard detector.

If multiple hazard detectors are present all of the hazard detectors may output light and sound of a heads up pre alert or emergency alert situation is present. To silence an alarm either in the pre alert or alert state the user may be required to perform the gesture or push a button at the hazard detector that originally detected the hazard. Once the proper hazard detector is silenced each other hazard detector may be silenced based on wireless communication between the hazard detectors .

Referring to an exemplary situation of when a heads up pre alert state is used. A gentle heads up pre alert warns a user of a condition that has risen above normal but has not yet triggered a full alert emergency state. Sounds and messages output during a pre alert state are intended to be less irritating and urgent than messages during an alert state. By having such a pre alarm state users may be less likely to disable a hazard detector and thus the hazard detector may be more likely to be functioning when needed.

As an example at point the hazard detector is monitoring its ambient environment for hazards such as smoke and carbon monoxide. An increased level of carbon monoxide or smoke may be detected at point . At such point a pre alert message and illumination may be output to warn users of the impending conditions. Such a pre alert may involve a notable but non jarring in comparison to a shrieking emergency alarm sound bell or ringing sound. The notable but non jarring sound may be similar in intensity to the bell sound emitted by an elevator when arriving at the target floor which is enough to notify but not so much as to unpleasantly jar the user. A user may be permitted to silence such a heads up pre alert message. At point a full alarm may be sounded which may involve a loud shrill alarm sound. At point a message with an accompanying illumination state may be output indicative of normal conditions resuming. Heads up pre alert states are associated with a yellow illumination state while emergency alert states are associated with red illumination states. If the hazard level in the environment of the hazard detector rises quickly no pre alert state may be entered by the hazard detector. Rather the alarm state may be directly entered from a monitoring state.

It is noted that the embodiments may be described as a process which is depicted as a flowchart a flow diagram a swim diagram a data flow diagram a structure diagram or a block diagram. Although a depiction may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be re arranged. A process is terminated when its operations are completed but could have additional steps not included in the figure. A process may correspond to a method a function a procedure a subroutine a subprogram etc. When a process corresponds to a function its termination corresponds to a return of the function to the calling function or the main function.

Furthermore embodiments may be implemented by hardware software scripting languages firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages and or any combination thereof. For a hardware implementation the processing units may be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessors other electronic units designed to perform the functions described above and or a combination thereof.

For a firmware and or software implementation the methodologies may be implemented with modules e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described herein. Any machine readable medium tangibly embodying instructions may be used in implementing the methodologies described herein. For example software codes may be stored in a memory. Memory may be implemented within the processor or external to the processor. As used herein the term memory refers to any type of long term short term volatile nonvolatile or other storage medium and is not to be limited to any particular type of memory or number of memories or type of media upon which memory is stored.

Moreover as disclosed herein the term storage medium may represent one or more memories for storing data including read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic RAM core memory magnetic disk storage mediums optical storage mediums flash memory devices and or other machine readable mediums for storing information. The term machine readable medium includes but is not limited to portable or fixed storage devices optical storage devices wireless channels and or various other storage mediums capable of storing that contain or carry instruction s and or data.

While the principles of the disclosure have been described above in connection with specific apparatuses and methods it is to be clearly understood that this description is made only by way of example and not as limitation on the scope of the disclosure.

