---

title: System and methods for third-party access to a network-based system for providing location-based upcoming event information
abstract: A system and methods for third-party access to a network-based system for providing location-based upcoming event information are described. The location-based upcoming event information may be accessed from the network-based system by a server-side web application implemented by a third party. The server-side web application may be configured to communicate with the network-based system that provides online marketplace and ticket fulfillment services and to generate a query based upon the location of a user and other event criteria. The server-side web application may communicate the query to the network-based system and, in response, receive location-based upcoming event information which may be displayed to a user as a list and/or information on a map. The location-based upcoming event information may comprise an aggregate of ticket inventory available from multiple online marketplaces providing the user with multiple purchasing options.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09330364&OS=09330364&RS=09330364
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09330364
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140224
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 338 158 filed Dec. 18 2008 which is a continuation in part of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 275 783 titled System and Methods for Providing Location Based Upcoming Event Information Using a Client Side Web Application Implemented on a Client Device which was filed on Nov. 21 2008. This application also claims priority to co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 262 468 titled System and Methods for Upcoming Event Notification and Mobile Purchasing which was filed on Oct. 31 2008 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 552 782 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 917 398 titled Method and System for Illustrating Where a Ticket is Located in an Event Venue which was filed on Oct. 25 2006. These applications are entirely incorporated by reference.

Computer systems and networks have facilitated the tasks of buying selling and transferring goods. For example global computer networks such as the Internet have allowed purchasers to relatively quickly and efficiently seek and purchase goods online. Similarly global computer networks provide an efficient and cost effective medium for sellers to advertise offer provide and sell their goods. Electronic commerce companies provide buyers and sellers with online services and the infrastructure to accept orders of goods from remote purchasers to perform the financial transactions necessary to confirm and complete the sale of goods to ship or distribute the goods to remote purchasers and to perform other related logistics. For these reasons sellers actively use the Internet to offer sell and distribute a wide variety of goods to take advantage of the many benefits provided by the Internet and electronic commerce.

One example of a market for goods within the realm of electronic commerce is the secondary ticket market. The secondary ticket market encompasses all instances in which live event tickets trade after the original point of purchase. This market exists for several reasons. First event tickets have an especially time sensitive nature. Numerous tickets expire unused each year because there is no efficient mechanism to buy and or sell secondary event tickets. When a ticket expires after an event has passed it loses all of its intrinsic value. As a result if the ticket holder cannot attend the event the only way to realize value for a ticket is to sell it in the secondary market. For example many venues universities and or sports franchises offer season tickets which are often packaged in bulk requiring a buyer to purchase several tickets at once. As a result season ticket holders often possess a number of tickets for events that they cannot attend and therefore desire to sell on the secondary market.

Additionally event venues have only a fixed supply of seating. Therefore the number of available tickets for a particular event is limited which means that high demand events can have significant volumes of secondary trading. Buyers who would like to sit only in certain seat locations further create a supply and demand imbalance. Particularly each seat location in a venue is totally unique which means there could be demand for a specific seat location that exceeds supply even when the venue is not sold out in the primary market thereby favoring the secondary market. Moreover while tickets for certain events e.g. football games of a team in the same venue may be similarly priced the actual supply and demand for such events may be substantially different thereby favoring the secondary market.

StubHub provides a network based system which implements an online secondary ticket marketplace for buyers and sellers of tickets for live events such as sports concerts theater and other entertainment events. The StubHub online secondary ticket marketplace enables legitimate convenient reliable and secure transactions at fair market value and provides ticket fulfillment services even for sold out events. Accordingly the StubHub online secondary ticket marketplace provides benefits for fans who wish to buy sell or otherwise transfer secondary tickets as well as for teams artists and venues.

Various embodiments relate to a system and methods for third party access to a network based system for providing location based upcoming event information. The location based upcoming event information may be accessed from the network based system by a server side web application implemented by a third party. The server side web application may be configured to communicate with the network based system that provides online marketplace and ticket fulfillment services and to generate a query based upon the location of a user and other event criteria. The server side web application may communicate the query to the network based system and in response receive location based upcoming event information which may be displayed to the user as a list and or information on a map. The location based upcoming event information may comprise an aggregate of ticket inventory available from multiple online marketplaces providing the user with multiple purchasing options. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

Various embodiments are described for providing access to an online ticket marketplace implemented by a network based system to provide location based upcoming event information. Numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be understood by those skilled in the art however that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known operations components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments. It can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional details disclosed herein may be representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the embodiments.

Reference throughout the specification to various embodiments some embodiments one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus appearances of the phrases in various embodiments in some embodiments in one embodiment or in an embodiment in places throughout the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

Various elements of the communications system may be implemented utilizing one or more computing devices having computing and or communications capabilities in accordance with the described embodiments. Exemplary computing devices may include without limitation a mobile device a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile computing device a communications device a telephone a mobile telephone a cellular telephone a smart phone a handset a one way pager a two way pager a messaging device a computer a personal computer PC a desktop computer a work station a laptop computer a notebook computer a tablet computer a handheld computer a mini computer a network appliance a web appliance a server a server computer a server array a server farm an Internet server a web server a network server a main frame computer a supercomputer a distributed computing system multiprocessor system processor based systems a control system consumer electronic equipment a media device a gaming device a television a digital television a set top box STB wireless access point base station subscriber station mobile subscriber center radio network controller a network access device a telephone network device a mobile telephone network device a VoIP network device a radio network device a television network device a satellite network device a router a hub a gateway a bridge a switch a machine or combination thereof.

The computing devices utilized by the communications system may be implemented by various hardware and or software components in accordance with the described embodiments. Exemplary hardware components may include processing devices such as central processing unit CPU and or other processors microprocessors application processors radio processors baseband processors digital signal processors DSP circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits application specific integrated circuits ASIC programmable logic devices PLD a field programmable gate array FPGA logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets memory such as volatile and or non volatile memory a display such as a liquid crystal display LCD or cathode ray tube CRT input devices such a keyboard mouse stylus touch pad and or touch screen networking devices such as ports network interface cards NICs transmitters receivers transceivers and or antennas as well as other components. Exemplary software components may include computer programs applications application programs system programs operating system OS software middleware firmware a software interface a programmatic interface an application program interfaces API a network interface a web interface a messaging interface modules instruction sets routines subroutines functions calls computing code or combination thereof.

Various elements of the communications system may support wired and or wireless communications functionality in accordance with the described embodiments. For example some computing devices may be arranged to communicate information over one or more types of communication links such as a wire cable bus printed circuit board PCB backplane switch fabric semiconductor material twisted pair wire co axial cable fiber optic connection Ethernet connection peer to peer P2P connection a data channel a radio channel a satellite channel a television channel a broadcast channel an infrared IR channel a radio frequency RF channel a portion of the RF spectrum one or more licensed or license free frequency bands and so forth.

Various elements of the communications system may support communication over one or more types of networks in accordance with the described embodiments. For example some computing devices and networks may support communications over a Wide Area Network WAN the Internet a telephone network e.g. analog digital POTS PSTN ISDN xDSL a mobile telephone network e.g. CDMA GSM NDAC TDMA E TDMA NAMPS WCDMA CDMA 2000 UMTS 3G 4G a radio network a television network a cable network an optical network e.g. PON a satellite network e.g. VSAT a packet switched network a circuit switched network a public network a private network and or other wired or wireless communications network configured to carry data. Computing devices and networks also may support wireless wide area network WWAN communications services including Internet access such as EV DO EV DV CDMA 1xRTT GSM GPRS EDGE HSDPA HSUPA and others.

Computing devices and networks may support wireless local area network WLAN and or wireless metropolitan are network WMAN data communications functionality in accordance with Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE standards protocols and variants such as IEEE 802.11 WiFi IEEE 802.16 WiMAX IEEE 802.20x Mobile Fi and others. Computing devices and networks also may support short range communication such as a wireless personal area network WPAN communication Bluetooth data communication infrared IR communication near field communication electro magnetic induction EMI communication passive or active RFID communication micro impulse radar MIR ultra wide band UWB communication automatic identification and data capture AIDC communication and others.

Further aspects and advantages of various embodiments will become more readily appreciated and better understood by the following description of the elements of the communications system illustrated in . Although certain exemplary embodiments and implementations may be illustrated and described as comprising a particular combination of elements and performing a particular set of operations it is to be understood that the principles and techniques discussed herein are not limited to such examples.

In the embodiment shown in the communications system includes among other elements a client which may comprise or employ one or more client devices such as a mobile computing device a PC and or any other computing device having computing and or communications capabilities in accordance with the described embodiments. The client devices generally may provide one or more client programs such as system programs and application programs to perform various computing and or communications operations. Exemplary system programs may include without limitation an operating system e.g. MICROSOFT OS UNIX OS LINUX OS Symbian OS Embedix OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS and others device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth. Exemplary application programs may include without limitation a web browser application messaging applications e.g. e mail IM SMS MMS telephone voicemail VoIP video messaging contacts application calendar application electronic document application database application media application e.g. music video television location based services LBS application e.g. GPS mapping directions point of interest locator and so forth. In some usage scenarios one or more of the client programs may display various graphical user interfaces GUIs to present information to and or receive information from one or more of the client devices .

As shown the client is communicatively coupled via one or more networks to a network based system . The network based system may be structured arranged and or configured to allow the client to establish one or more communications sessions with the network based system using various computing devices and or client programs . Accordingly a communications session between the client and the network based system may involve the unidirectional and or bidirectional exchange of information and may occur over one or more types of networks depending on the mode of communication. While the embodiment of illustrates the communications system deployed in a client server operating environment it is to be understood that other suitable operating environments and or architectures may be used in accordance with the described embodiments.

Data and or voice communications between the client and the network based system may be sent and received over one or more networks such as the Internet a WAN a WWAN a WLAN a mobile telephone network a landline telephone network a VoIP network as well as other suitable networks. For example the client may communicate with the network based system over the Internet or other suitable WAN by sending and or receiving information via interaction with a web site e mail IM session and or video messaging session. The client also may communicate with the network based system via a telephone call to a customer service agent and or interactive voice response IVR system made over a mobile telephone network a landline network and or a VoIP network. In wireless implementations the client may communicate with the network based system over the Internet via a WLAN or mobile telephone network that supports WWAN communications services. The client also may communicate over a mobile telephone network via SMS and or MMS messaging. It is to be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this regard.

In various usage scenarios communication sessions and or messaging between the client and the network based system may involve multiple modes of communication and or multiple networks. In some cases for example the client may initiate communication with the network based system by interacting with a web site. In response the network based system may communicate with the client in a variety of ways such as via the web site e mail IM SMS MMS and or a telephone call from a customer service agent and or IVR system. The communication from the network based system may comprise a message e.g. e mail IM SMS MMS containing relevant static or dynamic content an embedded hyperlinked URL for directing the client to a web site and or a hyperlinked telephone number for allowing the client to click and place a telephone call to an agent e.g. customer service agent and or IVR system of the network based system .

When communicating with the network based system the client may employ one or more client devices and or client programs . In various implementations the client devices and or client programs may host or provide one or more interfaces for communicating with the network based system . Exemplary interfaces may include a web interface an API interface a messaging interface and or other suitable communication interface in accordance with the described embodiments. The client programs for communicating with the network based system may comprise for example pre installed authored downloaded and or web based computer programs.

The client programs provided by one or more of the client devices e.g. mobile computing device and or PC may include a web client. The web client may comprise for example a desktop and or mobile e.g. WAP web browser e.g. Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox Safari Opera Netscape Navigator etc. capable of rendering web pages e.g. HTML documents and supporting various browser based web technologies and programming languages such as HTML XHTML CSS Document Object Model DOM XML XSLT XMLHttpRequestObject JavaScript ECMAScript Jscript Ajax Flash Silverlight Visual Basic VB VB Scripting Edition VBScript PHP ASP Java Shockwave Python Perl C .net and or others.

In various usage scenarios the client may use a web client to provide an interface e.g. HTTP interface for navigating to a web site associated with the network based system and for requesting and receiving web page data from the network based system . For example the client may use the web client to navigate to a web site associated with the network based system by entering a URL into a web browser address bar and or by clicking on a hyperlinked URL delivered to the client via a web page web based application e mail IM SMS MMS and or other delivery mechanism.

In one or more embodiments the web client may comprise or be implemented as a web browser toolbar for communicating with the network based system . In such embodiments the web browser toolbar may include for example a button e.g. dedicated customized add on and or a hyperlinked URL for navigating to a web site associated with the network based system . The web browser toolbar also may implement enhanced features such as a search engine interface e.g. text entry box input fields checkboxes clickable hyperlinks and or one or more pull down menus for accessing the network based system sending information e.g. search query keywords user preferences menu selections to the network based system and or receiving information e.g. search results relevant static or dynamic content from the network based system .

In one or more embodiments the web client may comprise or be implemented as a widget such as a desktop or mobile widget for communicating with the network based system . In such embodiments the desktop or mobile widget may comprise web based code an interpreter a virtual machine and or an API implementation to request receive present and or update content hosted by the network based system . The desktop or mobile widget may comprise for example a client side web application displayed on the desktop or phone top of one or more of the client devices implemented using various web technologies and programming languages. In various implementations the desktop or mobile widget may be supported by a host runtime environment such as a web browser or suitable rendering engine and or may be installed and run as a stand alone application outside of a web browser.

In various embodiments the network based system may provide users with one or more client side web applications as described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 275 783 titled System and Methods for Providing Location Based Upcoming Event Information Using a Client Side Web Application Implemented on a Client Device which was filed on Nov. 21 2008 and is incorporated by reference in its entirety. In such embodiments once downloaded and installed on a client device e.g. PC or mobile device of the user the client side web application may be configured to provide upcoming event information based upon the location of the user.

The client programs executed by one or more of the client devices may include a programmatic client for accessing and communicating with the network based system . Along with performing a certain set of functions the programmatic client may include for example an implementation of an API provided by the network based system for enabling access to and or communication with various elements e.g. servers databases of the network based system . In various embodiments the API implementation may comprise executable code in accordance with an SDK provided by the network based system .

In some usage scenarios the programmatic client may be implemented as a stand alone or web based database point of sale POS and or inventory management application for managing a large volume of available inventory and communicating with the network based system . The programmatic client may be employed for example by high volume sellers to author update and manage a large number of inventory listings. In some cases a high volume seller may use the programmatic client to perform batch mode communication with the network based system . The batch mode communication from the high volume seller may comprise data for numerous inventory items e.g. hundreds thousands for publication by the network based system . The programmatic client also may be used to communicate with the network based systems in real time. For example communications from the high volume seller may comprise real time inventory updates so that the listings published by the network based system accurately reflect the available inventory of the high volume seller.

The client programs executed by one or more of the client devices e.g. mobile computing device and or PC also may include a messaging client. The messaging client may comprise for example an application that supports one or more modes of communication such as e mail IM SMS MMS telephone VoIP video messaging and so forth. It can be appreciated that some messaging clients may required and or launch an Internet connection in the background when executed.

In various embodiments the communications system includes among other elements one or more other online marketplace systems . The other online marketplace systems may communicate with and enable the network based system to provide the client with additional services and or information such as additional ticket inventory. In various embodiments access to the network based system may provide the user with the ability to receive aggregated content and or online marketplace and ticket fulfillment services of the network based system and one or more other online marketplace systems eBay services Kijiji services PayPal services etc. . For example the location based upcoming event information may include event listings published by sellers via the online marketplace services of the network based system as well as event listings published by sellers via one or more of the other online marketplace systems e.g. eBay online marketplace Kijiji online marketplace .

As shown in the communications system includes a third party which in turn may comprise or employ a third party server hosting a third party application . The third party server and or third party application may host a third party web site associated with or employed by a third party such as an affiliate partner or other third party entity or user in accordance with the described embodiments. In some usage scenarios one or more of the client programs may be used to access the network based system after initially communicating with a third party web site. For example the web site of the third party e.g. affiliate partner may comprise a hyperlinked advertisement that when clicked directs to the web client to a web page hosted by network based system . In some cases the third party may be directly or indirectly compensated for directing traffic from the third party web site to the web site of the network based system and or in the event that an electronic commerce transaction results after a user is directed from the third party web sites to the web site of the network based system .

In accordance with various embodiments the network based system may provide online marketplace and ticket fulfillment services for buyers of tickets for live events such as sports concerts theater and other entertainment events. In one or more of such embodiments the third party application hosted by the third party may promote enhance complement supplement and or substitute for one more services provided by the network based system . In particular the network based system may communicate with and provide location based services to buyers of event tickets via a server side web application implemented by the third party as will be described in greater detail below.

In various embodiments the network based system may communicate with and provide online services to users such as buyers and sellers of goods. It is to be appreciated that goods for purchase and or sale may include both tangible goods e.g. physical tickets electronic tickets intangible goods e.g. rights and or licenses that are afforded by the tickets and other goods in accordance with the described embodiments. It also is to be appreciated that users other than buyers and or sellers may communicate with the network based system . In some cases for example the client may be associated with an administrator or customer service agent and may communicate with the network based system to monitor update and or otherwise manage one or more computing devices and or services of the network based system .

In various implementations the servers of the network based system may comprise or implement software components deployed in a tiered environment where one or more servers are used to host server software running in each tier. For example using a three tiered architecture one or more server software components may be hosted by front end servers one more server software components may be hosted by a middle tier or middleware implemented by application servers and one more server software components may be hosted by a back end tier implemented by databases and or file systems. In some embodiments servers of the network based system may be communicatively coupled with each other via a local area network LAN and or suitable intranet or back end network.

The network based system may comprise one or more communications servers for providing suitable interfaces to enable communication using various modes of communication and or via one or more networks . In the embodiment of the communications servers include a web server an API server and a messaging server to provide interfaces to one or more application servers . The application servers of the network based system may be structured arranged and or configured to provide various online marketplace and or ticket fulfillment services to users that access the network based system .

In various usage scenarios the client may communicate with the applications servers of the network based system via one or more of a web interface provided by the web server a programmatic interface provided by the API server and a messaging interface provided by the messaging server . It can be appreciated that the web server the API server and the messaging server may be structured arranged and or configured to communicate with various types of client devices and or client programs and may interoperate with each other in some implementations.

The web server may be arranged to host web pages e.g. HTML documents and provide an appropriate web interface e.g. HTTP CGI etc. for enabling data to be presented to and received from entities via the Internet. The web server may be arranged to communicate with web clients and or applications such as a web browser web browser toolbar desktop widget mobile widget web based application web based interpreter virtual machine and so forth. The web server may provide a web interface to enable access by the client and or the third party to the various services and functions provided by the application servers . For example the web server may be arranged to receive data from the client and or third party and to pass the data to one or more application servers within the network based system . The web sever also may present the client and or third party with relevant static and dynamic content hosted by the network based system in response to various requests and or events.

The API server may be arranged to communicate with various client programs and or a third party application e.g. third party web site comprising an implementation of API for the network based system . The API server may provide a programmatic interface to enable access by the client and or the third party to the various services and functions provided by the application servers . For example the programmatic interface provided by the API server may be used for batch mode and or real time communication with a high volume seller for receiving and updating inventory listings. The programmatic interface provided by the API server also may be used to communicate relevant static or dynamic content hosted by the network based system to an API implementation of one or more client programs and or a third party application e.g. third party web site . The API implementation may comprise for example executable code in accordance with a SDK provided by the network based system .

The messaging server may be arranged to communicate with various messaging clients and or applications such as e mail IM SMS MMS telephone VoIP video messaging and so forth. The messaging server may provide a messaging interface to enable access by the client and or the third party to the various services and functions provided by the application servers . For example the messaging interface provided by the messaging server may be used to communicate with the client and or the third party in a variety of ways such as via e mail IM SMS MMS video messaging and or a telephone call e.g. landline mobile VoIP with a customer service agent and or IVR system.

When implemented as an online ticket marketplace the application servers of the network based system may provide various online marketplace and ticket fulfillment services including for example account services buying services selling services listing catalog services dynamic content management services delivery services payment services notification services and other services in accordance with the described embodiments. In the exemplary implementation shown in the application servers may comprise an account server a selling server a buying server a listing catalog server a dynamic content management server a payment server a notification server and a delivery server structured and arranged to provide such online marketplace and ticket fulfillment services.

The application servers in turn may be coupled to and capable of accessing one or more databases including a subscriber database an active events database and a transaction database . The databases generally may store and maintain various types of information for use by the application servers and may comprise or be implemented by various types of computer storage devices e.g. servers memory and or database structures e.g. relational object oriented hierarchical dimensional network in accordance with the described embodiments.

The account server implemented by one or more of the application servers may allow a user to establish and or manage a subscriber account with the network based system . For example while some services provided by the network based system may be generally accessible a user may be required to access an existing subscriber account or register a new subscriber account with the network based system in order to receive certain customized and or subscriber specific services.

To create a subscriber account a user may provide the network based system with account information such as a unique username e mail address password name location e.g. address city country and or zip code telephone numbers e.g. home work and or mobile and or other required information for identifying and or authenticating the user. After receiving the required account information and instructions from the user to create the subscriber account the network based system may create the subscriber account and store the account information in the subscriber database .

After a subscriber account is created the user may view and or make changes to account information add or edit existing contacts retrieve or change the password view and edit sources of funds and or financial value on file view and edit payment options and or otherwise manage the subscriber account.

To effectuate the buying or selling of goods such as event tickets the user may be required to link the subscriber account of to a source of funds and or financial value for completing different transactions via the network based system . It can be appreciated that the user may provide various types of entities or third party financial accounts capable of supplying or receiving funds and or financial value in accordance with the described embodiments. Exemplary entities and or third party financial accounts may include without limitation a bank bank account lender line of credit credit card company credit card account debit card prepaid debit card account third party payment services account e.g. PayPal account payroll account check money order or any other suitable source of financial value.

Additionally or alternatively to linking the subscriber account to a source of financial value based on a commercial currency e.g. U.S. dollar a user may link to the subscriber account to a source of financial value based on a proprietary and or promotional currency e.g. points rewards coupons capable of accumulation and or redemption by the user to pay for goods or services. It can be appreciated that multiple sources of funds and or financial value associated with the user may be linked to the subscriber account enabling the user to select among such sources to effectuate different payment transactions via the network based system .

The user may select various options for receiving payment when a sale is effectuated via the network based system . For example the user may request payment for sales via check deposit to a third party payment services account e.g. PayPal account or Season Ticket Account and or other type of source capable of receiving funds and or financial value in accordance with the described embodiments. In some implementations the user may select to donate some or all of the proceeds of a sale to a third party such as a non profit organization or entity e.g. charity foundation fund alliance society as described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 697 850 titled System and Method for Providing Logistics for a Sale or Transfer of Goods with Proceeds Provided to a Third Party which was filed on Oct. 30 2003 and is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

When accessing the subscriber account the user may view and or manage various details of past and pending transactions. For example the subscriber account may provide a seller with details regarding past and pending ticket sale listings e.g. shipped canceled inactive expired deleted active pending confirmation awaiting shipment and may allow the user to track event listings modify the prices of event listings view and confirm received orders view and confirm orders to ship print or reprint shipping labels view shipped orders view canceled orders view the status of payments and edit payment options view past payments and so forth. The subscriber account also may provide a buyer with details regarding past and pending ticket purchase transactions e.g. past orders purchased delivered canceled expired order status delivery status active bids auctions lost and may allow the user to view order history track active bids modify offers download and print electronic tickets view and edit payment options and so forth.

In various implementations the user may customize a subscriber account with one or more interests and ticketing preferences. For example the user may add and edit information associated with the subscriber account regarding one or more cities venues artists teams and sporting events theaters and season ticket and packages of interest to the user.

The user also may customize a subscriber account with one or more notification preferences. For example the user may configure the subscriber account to receive notifications change notifications and or discontinue notifications. In some cases the user may request to receive promotions via an e mail newsletter featuring events happening in a particular location. The user also may subscribe to receive customized alert notifications in a variety of ways such as via e mail IM SMS MMS and or other suitable delivery mechanism. In addition to receiving such notifications via e mail IM SMS MMS the user may access the subscriber account and view recent notifications such as alert notifications and other messages received in the past week.

The selling server implemented by one or more of the application servers may allow a user to offer goods for sale via an online marketplace provided by the network based system . To list goods for sale such as a single or multiple event tickets a seller may provide the network based system with required event information such as event location of the tickets sale type ticket quantity seating details e.g. section row seat comments price and payment method. After receiving the required event information and instructions from the seller to publish an event listing the network based system may create an active event and store the event information in the active events database for publication to users of the network based system . It can be appreciated that upon the sale of the tickets one or more delivery options may be available depending on the locations of the buyer and the seller the time remaining before the event and or the form of the tickets e.g. physical tickets electronic tickets .

In various embodiments a seller may post an event for publication as described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 689 787 titled System and Method for Posting Multiple Items for Sale which was filed on Mar. 22 2007 and is incorporated by reference in its entirety. In such embodiments the seller may select the appropriate type of event city or venue for event tickets being offered for sale and then may be queried or prompted to select a specific event after making selections from various categories and subcategories presented via a set of interactive pull down menus.

In one implementation for example a seller may be presented with a pull down menu listing categories such as sports tickets concert tickets theater and arts tickets and ticket gift certificates. If the seller selects the sports tickets category a pull down menu listing sports tickets such as baseball tickets basketball tickets football tickets and other types of sports tickets is presented. If the seller then selects football tickets a pull down menu listing sports subcategories such as NFL tickets CFL tickets and NCAA tickets is presented. If the seller selects the NFL tickets a pull down menu listing ticket subcategories such as NFL regular season tickets NFL playoff tickets and NFL pro bowl tickets is presented. If the seller selects the NFL regular season tickets a pull down menu listing NFL teams is presented. Once the seller selects tickets for particular NFL team a listing of available events including event details e.g. team and opponent date time venue name for the team are displayed which can be sorted by event date and venue. The seller may then select an event from the listing of available events. It can be appreciated that appropriate sets of pull down menus for listing categories and successive subcategories may be presented for any type of event ticket in accordance with the described embodiments.

After an event has been selected the seller may provide the network based system with the shipping location of the tickets and verify current contact information e.g. address and telephone phone number . The seller may provide a sale type such as a fixed price sale e.g. set price capable of subsequent modification a declining price sale e.g. automatically decreasing price over time from maximum price to minimum or an auction sale e.g. buyers bid from a starting price during an open period with the highest bidder placing an order when the auction closes .

The seller may provide the ticket quantity for specific seats or general admission. The seller may provide the ticket quantity and may allow the quantity of offered tickets to be split among several buyers in multiples of two. The seller may provide seating and ticket details for the offered tickets such as section row seat numbers and may provide other comments. In some cases the seller may select to prevent buyers from viewing the specific seat numbers when the event listing is published by the network based system .

The seller may provide the price per ticket and the ending date of the sale when the event listing is to be removed from publication. For some events the event listing may expire three business days before the event. In certain markets tickets may be sold on consignment and the listing may remain until the start of the event.

The seller may provide a selected payment method for the sale of the tickets such as via check deposit to a third party payment services account e.g. PayPal account Season Ticket Account and or other type of source capable of receiving funds and or financial value and or donation to a third party such as a non profit organization or entity.

The buying server implemented by one or more of the application servers may allow a user to locate goods offered for sale via an online marketplace provided by the network based system . To find goods for sale such as a single or multiple event tickets a buyer may view active event listing published by the network based system .

In accordance with various embodiments information may be presented to and or received from information from the user via one or more user interfaces presented on the display of a client device e.g. PC or mobile device . The user interfaces presented to the user by a client side web application may comprise a search engine interface e.g. text entry boxes input fields checkboxes clickable hyperlinks pull down menus etc. for allowing the user to provide event criteria for searching and or filtering event listings. The user interfaces presented to the user also may comprise search results including upcoming event listings that satisfy the event criteria.

For example the buyer may browse active event listings by clicking and following links for various event categories and subcategories such as sports tickets concert tickets theater tickets cities sports teams artists show type e.g. Broadway opera ballet comedy event names and so forth. The buyer also may search for events using a search engine interface and or one or more pull down menus. For example the buyer may enter one or more keywords into a search engine text entry box and view results comprising active events that satisfy the query. In various implementations the buyer may be presented with a ticket finder screen comprising a plurality of pull down menus for allowing the buyer to quickly formulate a search by selecting a category e.g. sports concert theater etc. a location e.g. city and a number of tickets from the pull down menus.

In some embodiments a user may search for and or request upcoming event information based on a variety of event criteria such as an event name category city venue artist genre team player e.g. starting pitcher favorite player theater date range date number of tickets price range ticket attributes e.g. zone range zone section range section row range row seat number range seat number and or combination thereof. Accordingly the event criteria included in a search query may comprise ticket attributes as well as one or more conditions associated with the event parameters for requesting information for such upcoming events only when such conditions are met.

Various combinations of event criteria are possible in accordance with the described embodiments. For example a user may request upcoming event information specifying combinations such as a certain number of tickets and a maximum price a particular artist and a certain city a certain player and a particular event venue and so forth. A user also may request upcoming event information based on one or more ticket attributes. For instance a user may request a certain number of tickets for an upcoming event in one or more specified zones sections rows and or or seats. Additionally event criteria may be applied alone or in combination across one or more events. A user may request for example tickets in a certain row e.g. front row or row range e.g. rows 1 5 within a specified zone e.g. club infield or section e.g. section 224 for a designated team e.g. professional baseball team and or for one or more games e.g. particular opponent rivalry game . The embodiments are not limited in the regard.

It can be appreciated that in some cases an upcoming event may not satisfy all event criteria specified by the user. For example tickets for an upcoming event may be available but not within a price range specified by the user. Additionally there may be no upcoming events that satisfy the event criteria specified by the user when there are no available tickets such as when no sellers have listed tickets for an event and or before tickets for an event go on sale. In such cases the client side web application may inform the user that there are no search results satisfying the search criteria and then perform a new search with relaxed search criteria. Alternatively or additionally the client side web application may automatically relax the search criteria and attempt another search.

Once a buyer has located and selected an event the tickets being offered for sale for the event may be presented to the buyer. In various embodiments the user may view the details of tickets being offered for sale and the location of tickets in the event venue as described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 552 782 titled Method and System for Illustrating Where a Ticket is Located in an Event Venue which was filed on Oct. 25 2006 and is incorporated by reference in its entirety. In such embodiments the buyer may be presented with an interactive event venue seat map and details of available tickets according to criteria specified by the buyer.

In one implementation for example after selecting an event the buyer may be presented with an interactive event venue seat map and an initial listing of all event tickets for sale. The event listings may include details such as section row quantity and price and may be sorted by the buyer according to such details. The sections of the interactive event venue seat map for which tickets are available may be displayed in color while sections having no available tickets may be displayed in white.

Within the interactive event venue seat map comparable or similarly located e.g. upper level sections having available tickets may be displayed in the same color while sections having available tickets that are not comparable or similarly located may be displayed in different colors. For example the colors used in the sections may correspond to zones for the sections with each zone comprising several comparable or similarly located sections. Along with the interactive event venue seat map the buyer may be presented list comprising the different zone names and the color used for each zone. The names of zones having available tickets may be displayed in black text while the names of zones having no available tickets may be displayed in gray text.

When presented with the interactive event venue seat map the buyer may roll over a particular section causing a roll over screen to appear indicating the quantity and price range of tickets available in that section. By clicking on a particular section the event listings may be filtered to display only the event listings in the selected section along with the specific details e.g. section row quantity price for such tickets. The buyer also may zoom in zoom out drag and or rotate the interactive event venue seat map.

When presented with the initial listing of all event tickets for sale the buyer may filter the initial listing by inputting criteria such as one or more price ranges e.g. 75 286 286 349 349 442 442 559 and 559 and up . Once the buyer selects a price range the event listings are filtered to display only the event listings in the selected price range. Additionally the interactive event venue seat map is modified to display sections in color for which tickets are available in the selected price range.

Each event listing may include ticket attributes such as section row quantity and price. Each listing also may include a link to view additional details that when clicked may display the ticket attributes along with further ticket details e.g. seat numbers time remaining to purchase the tickets seller comments delivery options a selectively enlargeable image of the event venue for reviewing the location of the seats and an action button for initiating purchase of the tickets.

To place an order for the tickets the buyer may provide a delivery location select a method of payment e.g. credit card confirm the transaction details e.g. description of the tickets delivery method delivery location payment amount and method of payment and the complete the purchase. When the buyer places the order a confirmation e mail is sent to the buyer and the seller is notified of the order request via e mail and requested to confirm the availability and delivery of the tickets. Upon receiving confirmation from the seller that the tickets have been sent the buyer is notified as to when delivery can be expected. It can be appreciated that upon the sale of the tickets one or more delivery options may be available depending on the locations of the buyer and the seller the time remaining before the event and or the form of the tickets e.g. physical tickets electronic tickets .

The listing catalog server implemented by one or more of the application servers may be arranged to receive and respond to queries and or to provide access to event information stored in the active events database . A query to the listing catalog server may comprise for example a search query web query web feed request e.g. RSS feed request ATOM feed request API request HTTP request e.g. Get Post etc. a web form submission e.g. XHTML HTML form and or suitable request mechanism in accordance with the described embodiments. In various implementations a query may be submitted to the listing catalog server via one or more communications servers from one or more client devices client programs a third party server and or a third party application . Queries also may be submitted to the listing catalog server internally from other application severs of the network based system .

In one embodiment the listing catalog server may be implemented by a distributed architecture comprising a plurality of distributed indexing modules. Each of the distributed indexing modules may provide an interface for receiving queries from front end servers such as the communications servers . The distributed indexing modules may store and build updatable indexes against which a query can be checked to expedite retrieval of a query result. The indexes may comprise for example common keywords or search terms and event IDs linked to such keywords or search terms. The distributed indexing modules also may cache common query results.

The distributed indexing modules may be arranged to receive updated indexing information brokered via a message bus from a local gatherer module. The local gatherer in turn may be coupled to and collect indexing information from the active events database . The indexing modules may update and or filter the indexes based on the updated information received from the local gatherer module and or information from other indexing modules.

The local gatherer module may be arranged to periodically scan items stored in the active events database and obtain updated indexing information. For example the local gatherer module may request items from the active events database that have changed within a given time period. The event information stored in the active events database may change frequently as new event listings for upcoming events are added and then removed when the tickets for such events listings are purchased. Furthermore the active events database may store relatively static information for an event such as category e.g. sports concerts theater as well as real time dynamic information such as current event listings and true levels of ticket inventory. It can be appreciated that the event information maintained by the active events database may be extremely dynamic especially in cases where LMS and electronic ticketing services are provided by the network based system .

The listing catalog server may receive and respond to the queries with event information for upcoming events that satisfy such queries. The event information may be provided locally from the listing catalog server if available e.g. cached and or may be retrieved by the listing catalog server from the active events database . In various implementations event information from the listing catalog server may be communicated via one or more communications servers to one or more client devices client programs a third party server and or a third party application . The event information from the listing catalog server also may be provided internally to other application severs of the network based system .

In accordance with various embodiments the listing catalog server provides detailed ticket listing and event data as well as information e.g. metadata about the classifications of that data. An event may be for example a sports concerts theater or exclusives event for which sellers are permitted to post tickets for sale. Genre is a category classification for classifying one or more events. Each event may be directly associated with one or more detailed level genres. For example an event or game of a particular team may be directly associated with a team tickets genre. That team tickets genre in turn may be classified under a more generic sport e.g. baseball genre. Geography geo is another category classification defining the location of an event. Category classification data may comprise for example search dimension data and or metadata.

A ticket listing is a batch of individual tickets that sellers may post for sale via the network based system . Ticket listings are associated with specific events and may have different restrictions such as the sale method e.g. auction fixed price etc. or whether the seller permits selling the constituent tickets in multiple batches or only as a single batch e.g. ticket listing splits may or may not be allowed . Ticket listings also contain information about the general type of seat within a specific venue e.g. row section seats . Ticket listings also include the single price that each ticket within the listing is to be sold per the preference of the seller.

The data may be organized and or stored by the listing catalog server and or stored in the active events database within index documents. Exemplary types of index document include genre geography event ticket and others e.g. venue co brand logistics condition . Each unique index document instance may refer for example to a unique occurrence of a genre geo event or ticket data set. Within each index document are fields which provide names and values of searchable attributes e.g. price field which allow searching for document instances e.g. the value of the price field within a certain range .

Exemplary information parameters that may be included in various types of index document are described below in the following tables. It can be appreciated that the tables represent exemplary index document types and that other document types may be used in some implementations. It also can be appreciated that the index documents may include different event information parameters additional event information parameters or fewer information parameters than those described in the tables.

Exemplary information parameters that may be included in a genre index document are described below in the following table.

Exemplary information parameters that may be included in a geography index document are described below in the following table.

Exemplary information parameters that may be included in an event index document are described below in the following table.

Exemplary information parameters that may be included in a ticket index document are described below in the following table.

The listing catalog server may provide HTTP access for remote applications to query for the data internal to the network based system . The listing catalog server may return document data for each document satisfying the query as formatted text. A count of the number of documents returned may be provided in the header section of the response. The text format of the results can be specified in the HTTP Request or by default may be a proprietary XML format of the network based system .

In various implementations the listing catalog server may employ classification data hierarchies or metadata to classify event and ticket listings according to independent search dimensions e.g. Genre and Geo . Classifications form a hierarchy or tree of categories. For example events may be classified into genres categories. Genres in turn are themselves classified into a hierarchical tree like structure. Within a hierarchy each event may be associated with an immediate parent genre where that parent genre is the most detailed category or is at the lowest level of the hierarchical tree. As an example the general baseball tickets genre is a parent of the more specific team tickets genre and this forms a genre classification hierarchy or tree. For instance a genre classification hierarchy may be as follows all tickets sports tickets baseball tickets 2008 MLB Tickets 2008 MLB regular season tickets team tickets. In this hierarchy the team tickets genre would be considered a leaf node of the genre dimension classification hierarchy.

Events also can also be classified into geographies or location categories. Geographies in turn are themselves classified into a hierarchical tree like structure analogous to the genre hierarchy structure. Again each event may be associated with an immediate parent genre where that parent geography is the most detailed category or is at the lowest level of the hierarchical tree structure.

The listing catalog server may contain data types which may be queried for details or fact data regarding posted event and ticket listings. The fact data in turn may contain specific measures such as specific occurrences of quantity and price. Each document includes an identifier id field for containing a unique numeric identifier. This id field may be used to map relationships between multiple documents of different categories. For example the genre parent field of an event document refers to the unique genre field of a genre document. Accordingly the one to many relationship among the genre parent and several events may be represented in this manner.

The dynamic content management server implemented by one or more of the application servers may be arranged to provide a user with relevant and or related dynamic content customized according to a particular context of the user. The dynamic event information may comprise for example event information that changes as new event listings for upcoming events are added and as event listings are removed when the tickets for such events listings are purchased and real time event specific information such as current event listings price ranges and true levels of ticket inventory. Relevant or related dynamic content may comprise for example dynamic content customized according to the location of the user such as location based advertising content e.g. banner ads relevant and or related categories and subcategories e.g. links for local sports teams artists performing in the location theater shows playing in the location a list of event names and dates for upcoming events in the location arranged by category and or other type of dynamic featured content that changes according to the location of the user.

In some implementations the appearance of a user interface displayed to the user may be customized or branded with dynamic content based on the location of the user and or event criteria specified by the user. For example a web page or web client may comprise a comprise a header skin or other designated area that dynamically displays different graphics e.g. pictures logos backgrounds etc. advertisements news and or other featured content received from the network based system according to the location and or event criteria of the user.

In various embodiments the dynamic content management server may be structured arranged and or configured to bind dynamic information to a particular node and or combination of nodes defining the context of the user. Exemplary nodes may include for example geography nodes e.g. event cities category nodes e.g. sports concerts theater sports nodes e.g. baseball football basketball sports subcategory nodes e.g. professional college music genre nodes e.g. jazz rock alternative theater subcategory nodes e.g. musical comedy ticket subcategory nodes e.g. regular season playoff bowl conference nodes team nodes artist nodes theater show nodes venue nodes event nodes and so forth. It can be appreciated such nodes may be arranged e.g. hierarchically and or in other ways in accordance with the described embodiments.

The dynamic content management server may be configured bind dynamic content such as relevant and or related categories and subcategories event listings for upcoming events promotional or advertising content UI graphics and or various other types of customized content to a node or combination of nodes. When navigating a web site provided by the network based system for example the user may be presented with links for selecting from among various locations categories and or subcategories and for viewing content associated with such selections. When the user makes a particular selection the context of the user may be defined by one or more nodes associated with such selection and the user may be presented with dynamic content customized to the context of the user.

In various embodiments the dynamic content management server may implement a front end query tool and presentation layer to query the listing catalog server according to the context of the user. In response to the query the dynamic content management server may receive dynamic content e.g. XML content from the listing catalog server and provide the dynamic content to one or more dynamic content modules embedded in a web page presented to the user. Accordingly the content associated with event listings may change based on the context of the user configurable parameters and or available inventory.

In one example a user selects a particular city and the dynamic content management server has bound dynamic content to a geography node associated with the particular city. Upon selection of the particular city by the user the context of the user may be defined at least in part by the geography node of the selected city and the user may be presented with the dynamic content that is bound to the geography node. In this case the user may be presented with a web page including dynamic content customized for the particular city such as graphics e.g. pictures background and advertising content e.g. banner ads for the particular city relevant and or related categories and subcategories e.g. links for local sports teams artists performing in concert in the city theater shows playing in the city a list of event names and dates for upcoming events in the city arranged by category and or other type of dynamic content that changes according to the city selected by the user.

In another example a user selects a particular football team and the dynamic content management server has bound dynamic content to a team node associated with the particular football team. Upon selection of the team by the user the context of the user may be defined at least in part by the team node and the user may be presented with the dynamic content that is bound to the team node. In this case the user may be presented with a web page including dynamic content customized for the particular team. For example the web page presented to the user may be dynamically branded with graphics e.g. pictures background advertising content e.g. banner ads and or news associated with the particular team. The user also may be presented with event listings for upcoming games for the team as well as relevant and or related categories and subcategories e.g. links for road games playoff games for the team. In this implementation the context of the user may be defined by one or more other nodes in a hierarchical path to the team node such as a category node e.g. sports sports nodes e.g. football sports subcategory node e.g. professional and ticket subcategory node e.g. regular season . As such the user may be presented with dynamic content bound to one or more of such nodes such as links to other professional football teams for which regular season tickets are available.

It can be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited to the foregoing examples and that dynamic content may be bound to a particular nodes and or a combination of nodes for customizing that content displayed to a user based on the context of the user. Accordingly the dynamic content management server may be used to create dynamic content campaigns including a various types of static and dynamic content and to bind such campaigns to nodes or groups of nodes that define a context of the user. It also can be appreciated that a node and or combination of nodes can be detected as a user selects one more links and or in other ways such as when a query is submitted e.g. text entry selection of checkboxes selection from a pull down menu a search result is returned or in any other way in accordance with the described embodiments.

The payment server implemented by one or more of the application servers may be arranged to effectuate and or manage payments between buyers and sellers and to post and track financial transactions for users of the network based system . Transaction information for past and pending transactions may be stored by the network based system in the transaction database . The payment server also may provide dispute resolution mechanisms to handle payment disputes arising between transacting parties and or fraud prevention mechanisms to prevent fraudulent transaction unauthorized use of financial instruments non delivery of goods abuse of personal information and so forth. While the payment server is shown in as forming part of the networked based system it will be appreciated that the payment server may form part of a third party payment system that is separate and distinct from the network based system in alternative embodiments.

In various implementations the payment server may account for a transfer of funds and or financial value by debiting the a source of funds and or financial value linked to the subscriber account of the buyer and crediting a source of funds and or financial value linked to the subscriber account of the seller. For example the network based system may securely communicate with one or more financial institutions such as a bank or credit card company over one or more networks and arrange the transfer of funds and or financial value from the buyer to the seller. It can be appreciated that while certain settlement mechanisms may be described for purposes of illustration the embodiments are not limited in this regard and a variety of settlement networks and modalities may be used in accordance with the described embodiments.

In one embodiment after the buyer reviews and confirms an order the account e.g. credit card of the buyer is verified and the sale amount e.g. ticket price plus delivery cost is authorized. The seller is notified of the proposed purchase by e mail or other notification mechanism and requested to confirm that the tickets are still available and that the transaction can be completed.

Upon receiving confirmation from the seller the account e.g. credit card of the buyer is charged. Funds from the account of the buyer may be electronically transferred into a merchant account associated with the network based system and a transaction fee may be deducted. The remaining proceeds are then directed to the seller by issuing a payment in accordance with the payment method selected by the seller such as via check deposit to a third party payment services account e.g. PayPal account Season Ticket Account and or other type of source capable of receiving funds and or financial value and or donation to a third party such as a non profit organization or entity.

It can be appreciated that the network based system may provide a double blind complete ticket sale transaction without interaction between buyer and seller. Namely the network based system may facilitate an entire ticket sale transaction without requiring any interaction between the seller and the buyer. The network based system controls and or facilitates the entire sale and purchase process and serves as an intermediary between the buyer and seller effectively isolating the participation of the seller in the transaction from the participation of the buyer in the transaction. Accordingly the identity of one transacting party can remain concealed from the other.

The notification server implemented by one or more of the application servers may be arranged to generate and send various types of notifications to users of the network based system . The notification server may communicate with users over one or more types of networks e.g. the Internet a WAN a WWAN a WLAN a mobile telephone network a landline telephone network a VoIP network etc. via interfaces provided the communications servers such as the web server API server and or messaging server . It can be appreciated that in some implementations notifications may be forwarded to users via an intermediary such as an Internet Service Provider ISP online service provider OSP web based e mail service provider message aggregator e.g. SMS aggregator mobile transaction network entity and so forth.

The notifications may comprise messages delivered to users via e mail IM SMS MMS video message telephone call as well as messages delivered to the subscriber account of the user. In some cases the notifications may provide the user with information related to various online marketplace transactions. For example notifications may be sent to sellers for indicating the status of event listings informing the seller of offers e.g. auction bids for event listings or sales of similar tickets and allowing the user to modify the prices of event listings notifying the seller of placed orders and requesting confirmation of the availability of tickets for such orders providing delivery instructions and requesting confirmation of delivery tracking shipped orders providing the status of payments and so forth. Notifications may be sent to buyers for tracking ticket purchase transactions e.g. active bids auctions lost for event listings and allowing the buyer to modify offers confirming an order and delivery tracking shipped orders providing pick up instructions and requesting confirmation of receipt downloading and print electronic tickets and so forth.

In various embodiments the user may subscribe to receive customized alert notifications for upcoming events as described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 262 468 titled System and Methods for Upcoming Event Notification and Mobile Purchasing which was filed on Oct. 31 2008 and is incorporated by reference in its entirety. In such embodiments the notification server may be arranged to generate and send an alert notification comprising a text message including relevant static or dynamic event information as well as an embedded hyperlink. The hyperlink may comprise a hyperlinked telephone number for allowing the user to place a telephone call to an agent of the network based system for transacting a mobile purchase. Alternatively or additionally the hyperlink may comprise a URL or URI for navigating to the network based system for transacting the mobile purchase.

It can be appreciated that in some cases an upcoming event may not satisfy all event criteria specified by the user. In some implementations when there are no upcoming events that satisfy all the event criteria specified by the user the user may select to receive alert notifications for one or more upcoming events conditioned on the complete satisfaction of the event criteria. In such implementations the network based system may allow the user to select to receive an alert notification whenever an upcoming event that substantially and or completely satisfies the search criteria is listed. For example the user may select to receive on sale alert notifications when tickets that satisfy one or more preferences of the user become available. The network based system also may provide the user with various capabilities e.g. preference settings and options to allow the user to receive on sale alert notifications for preferred tickets and to allow the user to automatically and or optionally purchase such preferred tickets.

The delivery server implemented by one or more of the application servers may arrange the delivery of goods from the seller to the buyer. For the delivery of time sensitive goods such as a single or multiple event tickets the network based system may determine and present delivery options that ensure that an event ticket is delivered to the buyer before an event and the costs associated with such delivery options.

In various embodiments the network based system may coordinate the delivery of event tickets as described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 867 171 titled System and Method for Providing Logistics for a Sale of Goods which was filed on Sep. 27 2001 and is incorporated by reference in its entirety. In such embodiments the network based system may automatically arrange and or facilitate the logistics for the delivery of event tickets from the seller to the buyer.

In one implementation for example when the buyer places an order available delivery options are presented to the buyer that ensure that the event tickets can be delivered before the event either to the buyer or to a pick up location e.g. event venue will call or an office of the network based system in proximity to the buyer. The network based system may determine all available delivery options based on the form of the tickets e.g. physical tickets electronic tickets the time remaining before the event the location of the goods the location of the buyer pick up locations in proximity to the buyer and or the capabilities one or more couriers e.g. air land couriers express couriers local couriers or runners that can execute the delivery within the time remaining before the event.

When a physical ticket is to be delivered the network based system may determine and present shipping options to the buyer. The buyer may provide a delivery or pick up location and the network based system may automatically determine couriers capable of ensuring delivery and present a list identifying the couriers the available shipping methods e.g. two day one day overnight same day for each courier and the associated cost of each shipping method.

When a courier and shipping method is selected by the buyer the seller may be notified and presented with a printable shipping label for the courier and logistics for providing the tickets to the courier. For example the network based system may automatically determine the closest courier facility in proximity to the seller and may allow and arrange for the courier to retrieve the tickets. In such cases the network based system may communicate relevant information e.g. seller address delivery address pick up day and time frame to the courier in order to coordinate ticket retrieval. If the courier cannot service any of the selected locations at any of the selected times the network based system may require the seller to drop off the tickets at the nearest courier facility. The seller also may select to drop off the tickets at the nearest courier facility. If the seller selects or is required to drop off the tickets the buyer may be provided with the location of the courier facility driving or walking directions to the courier facility and or a map showing the courier facility.

Upon confirmation by the seller that the tickets have been sent or picked up the network based system may communicate delivery tracking information to the buyer and or seller. The network based system may notify the buyer of the delivery location and expected time and date of delivery. If the delivery location is at a pick up location such as the event venue will call or an office associated with the network based system the buyer may be provided with the pick up location driving or walking directions to the pick up location and or a map showing the pick up location.

To ensure delivery to the buyer before an event a last sale time may be associated with an event listing. In some cases for example the last sale time for an event listing may be three business days before the event to provide sufficient transit time to ensure completion of delivery. In such cases the event listing will expire at the last sale time.

It can be appreciated that both sellers and buyers may desire the last sale time to be as close to the event start time as possible in order to maximize the opportunity to make a sale and the opportunity to witness an event. Accordingly the network based system may provide sellers and buyers with various last minute services LMS for maintaining an event listing and the ability to sell and purchase listed tickets right up to the start of the event.

In one implementation for example the network based system may allow tickets to be sold on consignment and may maintain an event listing until the start of the event. When a seller requires delivery of physical tickets for an upcoming event the seller may select to sell the tickets using LMS provided by the network based system . The seller may request LMS and provide the network based system with contact information e.g. name address telephone number e mail address ticket information e.g. event name event venue ticket event dates closest city to the event and authorization to release the tickets.

In response to the LMS request the seller may be contacted by an agent of the network based system via telephone or other contact method and provided with additional selling information. Depending on the time remaining before the event the seller may be instructed to ship or physically deliver the tickets to an LMS center associated with the network based system . Typically the location of the LMS center will be in close proximity to the event venue. The seller also may select to physically deliver the tickets to the LMS center. When physical delivery of the ticket to the LMS center is required or selected the seller may be provided with the location of the LMS center driving or walking directions to the LMS center and or a map showing the LMS center.

Once the tickets are delivered to the LMS center the event listing may be maintained until the start of the event and the subsequent delivery of the tickets to a buyer is handled by the network based system . For example the LMS center and or the network based system may handle the responsibility of shipping the tickets to the buyer delivering the tickets to the event venue will call and or the keeping the tickets at the LMS center until pick up by the buyer. It can be appreciated that the LMS provided by the network based system may facilitate delivery and allow the network based system to defer the last sale time until the start of the event.

In various embodiments the network based system may provide electronic ticketing services for allowing a buyer to purchase one or more electronic tickets that can be used at the event venue. It can be appreciated that providing such electronic ticketing services may allow the network based system to defer the last sale time until the start of the event.

When the user selects an upcoming event from event listings published by the network based system a web page may be presented to the user that includes event information for the selected upcoming event such as the name of the event the date and time of the event the event venue available ticket listings including ticket attributes e.g. section row quantity price and so forth. In some cases a purchaser of event tickets may provide the event information to the network based system in order to list the tickets for sale on a secondary market. In other cases the venue event promoter or other type of ticket issuer may provide the network based system with event details such as event description event venue event date and time artist and so forth. In response the network based system may manage the event enable the venue to sell tickets for the event manage the generation and distribution of electronic tickets and facilitate the use of electronic tickets for access control to the venue. For example the network based system may create an event listing generate electronic tickets publish available tickets for sale and coordinate the sale of the electronic tickets.

In various embodiments a web page presented to a user may comprise the event information along with a link to purchase electronic tickets and or a link to view additional details. By clicking the link to purchase electronic tickets the user may initiate a purchase of one or more electronic tickets. By clicking the link to view additional details a subsequent web page may be displayed including ticket attributes along with further ticket details e.g. seat numbers time remaining to purchase the tickets seller comments delivery options a selectively enlargeable image of the event venue for reviewing the location of the seats and an action button for initiating purchase of the tickets. In some cases one or more web pages may include a link to view delivery options such as a location of driving or walking directions to and or a map showing a pick up location.

To effectuate an electronic ticket purchase the user may be prompted to enter account information such as a unique username or e mail address and a password. Upon receiving the required account information the user is authenticated with the network based system and may initiate an electronic ticket purchase. After authentication the network based system may transact the purchase using a source of financial value linked to the subscriber account of the user or may request the user to supply payment information e.g. credit card account PayPal account etc. for the transaction.

In various embodiments a user may purchase electronic tickets and or save electronic ticket information using a web client such as a web browser web browser toolbar and or a desktop or mobile widget. For example a user may save an electronic ticket and or a hyperlink to a file associated with the electronic ticket in a subscriber account in the web browser toolbar and or within a desktop or mobile widget. The user also may display information for and differentiate among purchased electronic tickets on a client device e.g. PC or mobile device via the web client.

The buyer may purchase one or more electronic tickets using a credit card or other source of funds or financial value linked to the subscriber account of the buyer. In one or more embodiments the network based system may provide variable distribution and access control for purchased electronic tickers. For example the network based system may provide the buyer with various delivery options for receiving and or delivering the purchased electronic tickets.

The network based system may allow the buyer to have the electronic tickets delivered to an e mail address associated with the buyer. The buyer may access the e mail account display the electronic tickets and print out paper copies of the electronic tickets. Each of the paper copies of the electronic tickets may include a bar code which can be scanned at the event venue to allow access.

Alternatively or additionally the buyer may instruct the network based system to send an electronic ticket to a mobile device e.g. mobile phone or PDA associated with the buyer. For example the buyer may receive the electronic ticket at the mobile device and display a bar code of the electronic ticket on a screen of the mobile device which may be scanned at the event venue to grant access. In some usage scenarios the buyer may receive an SMS message sent to a mobile device that includes a link to a web page to render a ticket. In other usage scenarios the buyer may receive an MMS message sent to a mobile device that includes an image of the ticket. When the buyer chooses delivery to a mobile device the buyer also may receive the ticket via e mail as a backup in case the buyer wants to print out a paper copy to bring to or use at the event venue. The buyer may receive a text message at the time of ticket purchase and if the tickets are purchased more than a predetermined time before the event e.g. two days before the event a reminder text message just before e.g. one day prior to the event.

In various embodiments when the buyer purchases electronic tickets using a credit card the buyer may access the venue by swiping the credit card used to make the purchase at the event venue. Alternatively or additionally the buyer may use a driver s license to validate the ticket at the event venue. In some implementations only the buyer may use the credit card used to make the purchase or a driver s license as a means of entry at the event venue. It can be appreciated that in such implementations the buyer may validate his her ticket at the venue as well as validate other purchased tickets for other people who are present with the buyer at the time of entry into the event venue.

The network based system also may provide the buyer with various delivery options for splitting the distribution of a single order of multiple electronic tickets among one or more recipients in addition to and or other than the buyer. In some cases for example a buyer may purchase multiple electronic tickets e.g. block of four electronic tickets at once in a single order. In such cases the buyer may choose from the provided options for variably distributing one or more of the purchased electronic tickets and or the underlying rights associated with one or more of the purchased electronic tickets to different end recipients using different delivery mechanisms.

In various implementations when a buyer purchases more than one ticket the buyer may choose to have the tickets delivered directly to one or more other recipients for use at the event venue. For example when multiple tickets are purchased in one order the buyer can decide how individual tickets will be delivered electronically e.g. e mail SMS MMS etc. to another person. Upon delivery each ticket may be used by the recipient independently of the buyer arriving at the event so that the entire party does not need to be present to enter the event venue. In such implementations the buyer may be presented with delivery options as described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 325 789 titled System and Methods for Variable Distribution and Access Control for Purchased Event Tickets which was filed on Dec. 1 2008 and is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In various implementations the network based system may communicate the access rights to an electronic ticketing system at the event venue to associate the electronic ticket with the buyer and or one or more recipients. Access control at the event venue may be done by a scanner that will read a bar code contained on the ticket sent as described above. In some cases the buyer may access the venue by swiping the credit card used to make the purchase at the event venue or a driver s license. The buyer also may validate other purchased tickets for other people who are present with the buyer at the time of entry into the event venue. Each ticket delivered to a recipient may be used independently of the buyer arriving at the event so that buyer does not need to be present for the recipient to enter the event venue.

As the purchaser the buyer may retain ownership and control of the distribution of the tickets. The network based system allows the purchased tickets to be easily delivered to different end recipients and may be configured to distribute the purchased electronic tickets and or the underlying rights associated with electronic tickets differently based on ownership. In various embodiments the tickets and or the underlying rights associated with the tickets may be distributed to different end recipients by the network based system without affecting ownership without relisting the tickets and or without requiring the recipients to purchase the tickets.

It can be appreciated that when ownership and control of the tickets is retained by the purchaser the ability of a recipient to resell the tickets may be restricted. In some cases however the purchaser may choose to transfer complete ownership of an electronic ticket and or the underlying rights associated with the electronic ticket to a recipient. In various embodiments the network based system may be configured to support and broker the transfer of electronic tickets from the purchaser to multiple end recipients as well as from a recipient to another individual e.g. buyer or other recipient . For example the network based system may allow a recipient to list a received ticket for sale and may automatically handle the assignment of rights to a subsequent buyer when the ticket is purchased.

In cases where ownership and the underlying rights of an electronic ticket are transferred from the purchaser the network based system may communicate access rights to an electronic ticketing system at the event venue to associate the electronic ticket with a different individual e.g. recipient or subsequent buyer . In some embodiments the network based system may instruct the ticketing system to activate new electronic tickets with new bar codes and to deactivate the original electronic tickets and original bar codes of the purchaser. The new electronic tickets can be delivered by the network based system and or the electronic ticketing system for use by the recipient or subsequent buyer.

Alternatively or additionally the network based system may instruct the ticketing system to associate new identification and or authorization information e.g. credit card swipe card password pin code with the electronic tickets and to deactivate identification and or authorization information of the purchaser from the electronic tickets. Upon providing the required identification and or authorization information to the electronic ticketing system to a kiosk at the event venue and or to the network based system the recipient or subsequent buyer can use the electronic ticket to access the event venue.

As described above the network based system may implement an online secondary ticket marketplace accessible to users via a desktop and or mobile web browser. In one or more embodiments the network based system also may provide access to one or more third parties e.g. third party and support the implementation of server side web applications within third party web pages to provide location based upcoming event information. When implemented within third party web pages such server side web applications may access and receive content and or online services from the network based system and or other online marketplace systems . The server side web applications may be implemented within third party web pages using various web technologies and programming languages e.g. interpreted compiled scripting virtual machine etc. and or in accordance with a software development kit SDK provided by the network based system and or other online marketplace systems . While shows only the third party for purposes of illustration it can be appreciated that the communication system may comprise multiple different third parties.

In one or more embodiments the third party may provide a server side web application such as a web widget and or an API implementation for accessing the network based system via the third party application a third party web site and or a third party web page. In such embodiments the server side web application may comprise web based code within a web page configured for communication with the network based system and or other online marketplace systems . For example the server side web application may comprise web based code for providing programmatic access to the network based system and or other online marketplace systems for requesting receiving presenting and or updating content hosted by the network based system and or other online marketplace systems . In some implementations the server side web application implemented by the third party may allow the third party to host a third party web page configured to display an aggregate of ticket inventory available from multiple online marketplaces including the network based system and one or more other online marketplace systems and to provide the user with multiple purchasing options.

The network based system may support the implementation of server side web applications within third party web pages in various ways. For example the network based system may publish or otherwise provide an SDK comprising a set of tools e.g. instructions APIs protocols formats utilities etc. for enabling third parties to implement a server side web application and or API implementation for accessing the network based system .

The network based system also may make the server side web application directly available and advertise or inform third parties e.g. affiliates partners of the availability of the web application. The network based system may provide the third party with a hyperlink to a server of the network based system or of other online marketplace systems for downloading the server side web application. In some cases the size of the web application may be small enough such that the web application itself may be sent by the network based system to the third party via e mail or other suitable electronic delivery mechanism. The network based system also may present a web page e.g. home page development program page including a clickable hyperlink icon or banner right click save functionality and so forth for downloading the server side web application from a server of the network based system or other online marketplace systems . Alternatively or additionally the network based system may make the server side web application available via a web site or server that hosts a variety of different web applications.

Once implemented by the third party the server side web application may allow the third party to access and receive content and or provide online marketplace and ticket fulfillment services of the network based system to users. Such services may include for example access to account services selling services buying services listing catalog services dynamic content management services payment services notification services and or delivery services provided by the network based system . In some implementations the server side web application implemented by the third party also may receive and aggregate content and or online services provided by other online marketplace systems such as additional content and online marketplace and ticket fulfillment services e.g. eBay services Kijiji services payment services e.g. PayPal services and or other content and online services for promoting enhancing complementing supplementing and or substituting for one more services provided by the network based system .

In one or more embodiments the server side web application implemented by the third party may be configured to access the network based system for providing a user with upcoming event information based upon the location of the user. In various implementations the server side web application implemented by the third party may determine the location of a user in response to the user manually inputting geographic information e.g. address city state zip code venue into a text entry box or input field selecting a location from a displayed list or from a pull down menu or in any other suitable way in accordance with the described embodiments.

Alternatively or additionally the location of the user may be automatically determined by the server side web application implemented by the third party based on various capabilities characteristics and or information provided by the client device e.g. PC or mobile device being used to interact with the third party server and or third party application . For example the server side web application implemented by the third party may derive the location of the user from information provided by a web browser application messaging application e.g. e mail IM SMS MMS telephone voicemail VoIP video messaging contacts application calendar application electronic document application database application media application e.g. music video television LBS application e.g. GPS mapping directions point of interest locator and or other client application running on the client device of the user.

The server side web application implemented by the third party may be configured to generate a query based upon the location of a user and other event criteria. In various embodiments the query may comprise the location of the user as well as time based information e.g. date or date range for requesting location based upcoming event information for one or more events for which tickets are available occurring on a certain date or within a particular date range. The server side web application implemented by the third party may generate the query using a default date e.g. this week and or may prompt the user to enter a specified date or date range.

In some embodiments the server side web application implemented by the third party may allow the user to request upcoming event information based on a variety of event criteria such as an event name category city venue artist genre team player e.g. starting pitcher favorite player theater date range date number of tickets price range ticket attributes e.g. zone range zone section range section row range row seat number range seat number and or combination thereof. Accordingly the event criteria included in the query may comprise ticket attributes as well as one or more conditions associated with the event parameters for requesting information for such upcoming events only when such conditions are met.

It can be appreciated that various combinations of event criteria are possible in accordance with the described embodiments. For example a user may request upcoming event information specifying combinations such as a certain number of tickets and a maximum price a particular artist and a certain city a certain player and a particular event venue and so forth. A user also may request upcoming event information based on one or more ticket attributes. For instance a user may request a certain number of tickets for an upcoming event in one or more specified zones sections rows and or or seats. Additionally event criteria may be applied alone or in combination across one or more events. A user may request for example tickets in a certain row e.g. front row or row range e.g. rows 1 5 within a specified zone e.g. club infield or section e.g. section 224 for a designated team e.g. professional baseball team and or for one or more games e.g. particular opponent rivalry game . The embodiments are not limited in the regard.

Using the location of a user and other event criteria the server side web application implemented by the third party may generate a query prior to communicating with network based system . The server side web application implemented by the third party then may communicate the generated query to the network based system for requesting location based upcoming event information for one or more upcoming events. For example the server side web application implemented by the third party may communicate the generated query to the listing catalog server of the network based system . The query received by the listing catalog server may comprise for example a search query web query web feed request e.g. RSS feed request ATOM feed request API request HTTP request and or suitable request mechanism in accordance with the described embodiments.

In accordance with various embodiments the query may be generated based upon identifiers associated with the location and or other event criteria as defined by the network based system . As described above in some embodiments the events and ticket listings provided by the listing catalog server may be associated with one or more high level e.g. top level identifiers e.g. genre id geo id . In such embodiments the identifiers e.g. genre ids and or geo ids may be coded according to a proprietary scheme of the network based system . In one example the high level genre id 1 for concerts the high level genre id 722 for PGA golf events the high the high level geo id 81 for 2008 MLB games the high level geo id 4 for California and the high level geo id 81 for SF Bay Area. To query for search results limited to a particular location and or a particular genre e.g. SF Bay AREA PGA golf events requires a query for requesting event index documents that have a particular geo id 81 in their ancestorGeoIds field and or a particular genre id 722 in their ancestorGenreIds field.

In various implementations the server side web application implemented by the third party may be pre programmed and or otherwise configured to automatically generate queries using identifiers as defined by the network based system . For example the server side web application implemented by the third party may be configured to automatically map a location and or other criteria of a user to the corresponding geography and or genre identifiers defined by the network based system .

The listing catalog server may be arranged to receive and respond to the query with a response including the requested event information for the upcoming events. In some embodiments the response provided by the listing catalog server may include event information delivered via a web feed or other suitable delivery mechanism. While the event information may be received by the server side web application implemented by the third party via a request response mechanism it can be appreciated that alternatively and or additionally the listing catalog server may periodically push event information to the server side web application implemented by the third party in some implementations.

Exemplary event information parameters that may be included in the response from the network based system are described below in the following table.

It can be appreciated that in some implementations not all of the event information parameters included in the table may be necessary to display location based upcoming event information to the user. Accordingly when all of the event information parameters are included in the response the server side web application implemented by the third party may parse the response and extract only those event information parameters that are needed. Alternatively the query and or the response may be configured to request and respond with only those event information parameters necessary to display location based upcoming event information. It also can be appreciated that the response may include different event information parameters and or additional event information parameters than those described in the table.

The server side web application implemented by the third party may be configured to communicate a query in response to clicking a button and or hyperlink or in response to another suitable user command. Alternatively or additionally queries may be communicated whenever the user visits a web page hosted by the third party . Accordingly the server side web application implemented by the third party may send a query to the network based system for requesting updated event information and may display new event information received via a subsequent response from the network based system . For example the server side web application implemented by the third party may update the event information to include additional upcoming events to remove certain upcoming events and or or to reflect event details e.g. number of available tickets prices etc. that have changed.

In response to a query communicated to the network based system the server side web application implemented by the third party may receive location based upcoming event information for one or more upcoming events. In some cases the response may be limited to location based event information for upcoming events occurring within a particular date range. For example the response to the query may include location based event information for one or more events for which tickets are available occurring within the next seven days.

The server side web application implemented by the third party may display the location based upcoming event information to a user in various ways. In some implementations the location based upcoming event information may be displayed by the server side web application implemented by the third party as a listing of events that satisfy the event criteria and for which tickets are available. The listing of events may include details for each event such as the event name the event venue the event date the number of ticket listings a price range and or other event details in accordance with the described embodiments. By selecting an upcoming event from the event listings the user may be presented with additional event details and or may initiate a ticket purchase.

The server side web application implemented by the third party also may display location based upcoming event information on a map presented to the user. For example the server side web application implemented by the third party may display a map that illustrates and or pinpoints the locations of event venues and or a ticket pick up location such as an LMS center associated with the network based system . By selecting a pinpointed location from the map the user may be presented with details about events occurring at the selected location and or with directions to the selected location.

In various embodiments the upcoming event information returned in a query and displayed by the server side web application implemented by the third party may comprise ticket level details including section row and seat. Accordingly users may be presented with specific ticket details by the server side web application implemented by the third party via a mapping user interface may view tickets select tickets and also set preferences at the ticket level based on ticket level details.

In one or more embodiments the server side web application implemented by the third party may display location based upcoming event information that includes event listings published by sellers via the online marketplace services of the network based system as well as event listings published by sellers via other online marketplace systems e.g. eBay online marketplace Kijiji online marketplace . In such embodiments the server side web application implemented by the third party may display an aggregate of ticket inventory available from multiple online marketplaces providing the user with multiple purchasing options. In some implementations the network based system may store event listings associated with other online marketplace systems and may provide such event listings in response to a query from the server side web application implemented by the third party . In other implementations the network based system may retrieve event listings from other online marketplace systems in response to a query from the server side web application implemented by the third party and then provide such event listings to the server side web application implemented by the third party . Alternatively or additionally the server side web application implemented by the third party may be configured to generate one or more queries to other online marketplace systems and the other online marketplace systems may be configured to respond to the server side web application implemented by the third party by providing the requested location based upcoming event information.

In various embodiments the server side web application implemented by the third party may access and receive dynamic content such as dynamic event information as well as relevant or related dynamic content. The dynamic content may be provided for example by one or more dynamic content campaigns linked to one or more of the identifiers associated with the location and or other event criteria as defined by the network based system . The dynamic event information may comprise for example event information that changes as new event listings for upcoming events are added and as event listings are removed when the tickets for such events listings are purchased and real time event specific information such as current event listings price ranges and true levels of ticket inventory. Relevant or related dynamic content received by the server side web application implemented by the third party may comprise for example dynamic content customized according to the location of the user such as location based advertising content e.g. banner ads relevant and or related categories and subcategories e.g. links for local sports teams artists performing in the location theater shows playing in the location a list of event names and dates for upcoming events in the location arranged by category and or other type of dynamic featured content that changes according to the location of the user.

In some implementations the appearance of a user interface displayed by the server side web application implemented by the third party may be customized or branded with dynamic content based on the location of the user and or event criteria specified by the user. For example the server side web application implemented by the third party may display a user interface comprising a header skin or other designated area that dynamically displays different graphics e.g. pictures logos backgrounds etc. advertisements news and or other featured content received from the network based system according to the location and or event criteria of the user.

To effectuate a ticket purchase the server side web application implemented by the third party may display a user interface that prompts the user to log in by entering account information such as a unique username or e mail address and a password. Upon receiving the required account information the server side web application implemented by the third party may authenticate the user with the network based system and may allow the user to initiate and or complete a ticket purchase via the server side web application implemented by the third party . After authentication the server side web application implemented by the third party may be configured to request and receive a source of financial value linked to the subscriber account of the user or may request the user to supply payment information e.g. credit card account PayPal account etc. for the transaction. Alternatively or additionally when the user selects an upcoming event from the event listings displayed by the server side web application implemented by the third party a web page of the network based system may be launched by a web browser on the device of the user for allowing the user to log in and complete a ticket purchase.

In various embodiments after supplying the account information required for authentication the user also may access and receive various account services provided by the network based system via the server side web application implemented by the third party . For example the server side web application implemented by the third party may provide a seller with details regarding past and pending ticket sale listings e.g. shipped canceled inactive expired deleted active pending confirmation awaiting shipment and may allow the user to track event listings modify the prices of event listings view and confirm received orders view and confirm orders to ship print or reprint shipping labels view shipped orders view canceled orders view the status of payments and edit payment options view past payments and so forth.

The server side web application implemented by the third party also may provide a buyer with details regarding past and pending ticket purchase transactions e.g. past orders purchased delivered canceled expired order status delivery status active bids auctions lost and may allow the user to view order history track active bids modify offers download and print electronic tickets view and edit payment options and so forth. In some implementations the server side web application implemented by the third party may be customized with user preferences e.g. interests ticketing preferences notification preferences associated with the subscriber account and vice versa. For example user preferences may be synchronized between the subscriber account of the user and the server side web application implemented by the third party .

As described above a buyer may purchase and use an electronic ticket at an event venue. In various embodiments the server side web application implemented by the third party may allow a user to purchase electronic tickets. The server side web application implemented by the third party also may allow a user to save electronic ticket information. For example the server side web application implemented by the third party may allow a user save an electronic ticket and or a hyperlink to a file associated with the electronic ticket within a web widget. The user also may display information for and differentiate among purchased electronic tickets via the server side web application implemented by the third party .

It can be appreciated that in some cases an upcoming event may not satisfy all event criteria specified by the user. For example tickets for an upcoming event may be available but not within a price range specified by the user. Additionally there may be no upcoming events that satisfy the event criteria specified by the user when there are no available tickets such as when no sellers have listed tickets for an event and or before tickets for an event go on sale. In such cases the server side web application implemented by the third party may inform the user that there are no search results satisfying the search criteria and then perform a new search with relaxed search criteria. Alternatively or additionally the server side web application implemented by the third party may automatically relax the search criteria and attempt another search.

In some implementations when there are no upcoming events that satisfy all the event criteria specified by the user the server side web application implemented by the third party may allow the user to select to receive alert notifications for one or more upcoming events conditioned on the complete satisfaction of the event criteria. For example the server side web application implemented by the third party may provide the search criteria specified by the user to the network based system and allow the user to select to receive an alert notification whenever an upcoming event that substantially and or completely satisfies the search criteria is listed. For example the user may receive on sale alert notifications when tickets that satisfy one or more preferences of the user become available. In such implementations the network based system may provide the user with various capabilities e.g. preference settings and options to allow the user to receive on sale alert notifications for preferred tickets and to allow the user to automatically and or optionally purchase such preferred tickets.

In accordance with various embodiments a server side web application implemented by the third party may provide one or more user interfaces to be presented to a user on the display of a client device e.g. PC or mobile device to present information to and or receive information from the user. The user interfaces provided by the server side web application implemented by the third party may comprise a search engine interface e.g. text entry boxes input fields checkboxes clickable hyperlinks pull down menus etc. for allowing the user to provide a location and or other event criteria for searching and or filtering event listings. The user interfaces provided by the server side web application implemented by the third party also may comprise search results including location based upcoming event listings that satisfy the location and or other event criteria.

Exemplary representations of user interfaces displayed on a computer for presenting a user with location based upcoming event information are described below with reference to . It is to be understood that the embodiments are not limited to such exemplary representations. Furthermore it is to be understood that while a particular user interface may be described as comprising a certain set of features and functions a user interface may comprise fewer features and functions additional features and functions and or a combination of various features and functions of different user interfaces in accordance with the described embodiments.

The third party web page including the server side web application user interface may be presented to a user by one or more client programs e.g. web browser on one or more client devices e.g. PC or mobile device . When presented to a user the server side web application user interface may allow the user to access and receive content and or online services from the network based system via the third party web page hosted by the third party .

It can be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited to this context or to this representation and that the third party web page may comprise other types of web pages and or may form part of any type of affiliate web site partner web site online marketplace web site entertainment web site sports web site media web site search engine web site social networking web site blog and or other corporate or personal web site in accordance with the described embodiments.

The server side web application user interface also comprises a Search Events button for generating a query and conducting a search and a results pane for displaying the search results received in response to the query. In this example the results pane displays location based upcoming event information as a listing of upcoming events having available tickets that are within the date range and that satisfy the event criteria e.g. Category Concerts Genre Jazz Music . As shown the listing of events includes details for each event such as the event name the event venue the event date the number of ticket listings and a price range. The listing of events displayed in the results pane also comprises an aggregate of ticket inventory from several seller platforms e.g. StubHub eBay and Kijiji giving the user multiple purchasing options. For instance by selecting an upcoming event from the listing of events the user may be presented with additional event details and or may initiate a ticket purchase.

As shown the server side web application user interface that is provided by the server side web application also comprises a map . In this example the map includes a pin illustrating the location of an event venue. Upon the selection of the pin the server side web application user interface may display a pop up window including event details for the event venue comprising an aggregate of ticket inventory from several seller platforms e.g. StubHub eBay and Kijiji which can be selected by the user to initiate a ticket purchase. The pop up window also includes a featured content area which may comprise dynamic content that is relevant or related to the location and or event criteria of the user.

As shown the logic flow may comprise logic and or operations to determine a location of a user and other event criteria block generate a query based upon identifiers associated with the location and other event criteria as defined by a network based system block communicating the query to the network based system block receive a response to the query from the network based system block and display location based upcoming event information to the user block . It can be appreciated that while the logic flow may illustrate a certain sequence of logic and or steps other sequences of logic and or steps may also be performed in accordance with the described embodiments. Moreover some individual steps of the logic flow may include multiple sub steps that may be performed in various sequences as appropriate to the individual step. Furthermore additional steps may be added or some steps may be removed depending on the particular implementation.

In various embodiments one or more operations of the logic flow may comprise or be implemented as executable computer program instructions. The executable computer program instructions may be implemented by software a software module an application a program a subroutine instructions an instruction set computing code words values symbols or combination thereof. The executable computer program instructions may include any suitable type of code such as source code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code and the like. The executable computer program instructions may be implemented according to a predefined computer language manner or syntax for instructing a computer to perform a certain function. The executable computer program instructions may be implemented using any suitable programming language in accordance with the described embodiments.

In various embodiments one or more operations of the logic flow may comprise or be implemented as executable computer program instructions stored in an article of manufacture and or computer readable storage medium. The article and or computer readable storage medium may store executable computer program instructions that when executed by a computer cause the computer to perform methods and or operations in accordance with the described embodiments. The article and or computer readable storage medium may be implemented by various systems and or devices in accordance with the described embodiments.

The article and or computer readable storage medium may comprise one or more types of computer readable storage media capable of storing data including volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of computer readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other suitable type of computer readable storage media in accordance with the described embodiments.

Although some embodiments may be illustrated and described as comprising exemplary functional components or modules performing various operations it can be appreciated that such components or modules may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components firmware components and or combination thereof.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

It is worthy to note that some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however also may mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. With respect to software elements for example the term coupled may refer to interfaces message interfaces API exchanging messages and so forth.

While certain features of the embodiments have been illustrated as described above many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

