---

title: Telephone number grouping service for telephone service providers
abstract: An existing telephone service provider network may be adapted to associate a single telephone number with multiple telephone service user devices. The multiple provisioned telephone numbers may be grouped such that service activity originating from a device associated with one of the grouped telephone numbers appears to originate from a selected (and possibly different) one of the grouped telephone numbers, and such that service activity destined for a device associated with one of the grouped telephone numbers may be forwarded to one or more and/or each of the devices associated with the grouped telephone numbers. Any suitable set of provisioned telephone numbers may be grouped including, but not limited to, a set of two provisioned telephone numbers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09438728&OS=09438728&RS=09438728
owner: MYA NUMBER CORP.
number: 09438728
owner_city: Bainbridge Island
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141027
---
This invention pertains generally to telecommunications and more particularly to telecommunications that uses telephone numbers.

Mobile telephones have become a common part of work and play enabling convenient real time and message style communications between billions of people. As they developed mobile telephone systems typically extended fixed or landline telephone systems with a unifying element being a telephone number that conceptually corresponds to a particular telephone. As mobile telephones have become dominant in the marketplace the traditional association between particular telephone numbers and particular physical locations has weakened while the association between particular telephone numbers and particular people has strengthened. Mobile telephones have become lightweight and capable of being carried or in close proximity for much of the time. It can even feel odd to call a telephone number and have the call answered by someone other than a particular person associated with the telephone number.

In addition the variety of mobile communication devices has exploded. From smart phones to wearables telephone numbers are being associated with more and more non traditional devices. In particular it is becoming more common for a person to possess and operate multiple mobile communication devices each with features and shortcomings and each with its own associated telephone number. However this situation introduces the confusion of multiple telephone numbers associated with a person and the frustration that the person may not have all of the multiple devices in close proximity all the time.

Conventional attempts to address such frustrations confusions and complexities are inefficient ineffective and or have undesirable side effects or other drawbacks with respect to at least one significant use case. For example some conventional approaches are poorly integrated with telephone service provider infrastructure.

Embodiments of the invention are directed toward solving these and other problems individually and collectively.

Note that the same numbers are used throughout the disclosure and figures to reference like components and features.

The subject matter of embodiments of the present invention is described here with specificity to meet statutory requirements but this description is not necessarily intended to limit the scope of the claims. The claimed subject matter may be embodied in other ways may include different elements or steps and may be used in conjunction with other existing or future technologies. This description should not be interpreted as implying any particular order or arrangement among or between various steps or elements except when the order of individual steps or arrangement of elements is explicitly described.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention a telephone number grouping service may be provided for telephone service providers. An existing telephone service provider network may provide telephone service to a variety of communication devices associated with telephone numbers telephone service user devices including landline telephones and wireless cellular telephones. The existing telephone service provider network may be adapted to associate a single telephone number with multiple telephone numbers and or multiple telephone service user devices.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention a telephone service provider may provision telephone numbers for multiple telephone service user devices. For example such provisioning may include associating particular telephone numbers with particular subscriber identity module SIM of a wireless cellular telephone. The multiple provisioned telephone numbers may be grouped such that service activity originating from a device associated with one of the grouped telephone numbers outgoing activity appears to originate from a selected and possibly different one of the grouped telephone numbers and such that service activity destined for a device associated with one of the grouped telephone numbers incoming activity may be forwarded to one or more and or each of the devices associated with the grouped telephone numbers. For example incoming telephone calls may be forked to multiple devices and outgoing telephone calls may be masked so as to appear to originate from a selected and or primary one of the grouped telephone numbers. In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention a new telephone number may be provisioned and grouped with other telephone numbers to act as the primary telephone number for the group. Any suitable set of provisioned telephone numbers may be grouped including but not limited to a set of two provisioned telephone numbers.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention provisioned telephone numbers may be grouped in a registration phase. For example the registration phase may be facilitated with a graphical user interface such as a smart phone app or web site. A grouping service may intercept telephone service activity associated with registered telephone numbers. For example the telephone service provider may at least partially delegate telephone service control to the grouping service. The grouping service may process intercepted telephone service activity in accordance with one or more configured service activity processing policies and may yield service activity control on detection of emergency situations and or conditions e.g. a 911 call . The grouping service may be implemented with one or more components including one or more components located in a telephone service provider network e.g. by a telecommunications switch one or more components independent of telephone service provider networks e.g. at cloud hosted servers and or one or more components on a telephone service user device e.g. smart phone apps and or lower level telephone network functionality .

Having introduced some salient concepts the description now turns to the figures. depicts aspects of an example telecommunications environment in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention. In the example telecommunications environment multiple telephone service user devices are connected by a public telephone network operated by one or more telephone service providers not shown in . For example telephone service user devices may include a landline telephone a wireless cellular telephone a smart phone a wearable communications device and any suitable communications device capable of participating in the public telephone network . In the example depicted in a mobile telephone and the wearable communications device have been configured as grouped devices in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention.

The system architecture may further include a grouping service configured at least to provide a telephone number grouping service for the public telephone service provider . An example grouping service in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention is described below in more detail with reference to . In this example system architecture the grouping service is incorporated into the public telephone service provider however each embodiment is not so limited. The grouping service may be accessible from a user client e.g. a personal computer via a public internetwork e.g. the Internet . For example the grouping service may maintain a web based user interface for registering and configuring grouped telephone numbers and or user devices and the user client may incorporate a web client e.g. a web browser suitable for interacting with the web based user interface.

Service user details and preferences may be stored in a user datastore . Registered telephone service user device details including associated telephone numbers may be stored in a registered device datastore . The telephone number grouping service may include a telephone service provider interface enabling access to public telephone service provider functionality and or enabling the public telephone service provider to delegate telephone service activity processing to the telephone number grouping service . For example responsive to registration of a group of telephone numbers the telephone number grouping service may utilize the telephone service provider interface to request delegation of telephone service activity related to the telephone numbers in the group. Such delegation may include interception and or forwarding of telephone calls and or short message service SMS messages and or delegation of responsibility for aspects of related telephony protocols such as telephony protocol signals or messages. Where a telephone service activity includes distinct service activity control and service activity data aspects delegation may include delegation of service activity control and or service activity data. Such delegation may include providing receiving routing transforming and or processing service activity control and or service activity data.

Upon receiving delegated telephone service activity the telephone number grouping service may process the delegated telephone service activity with a telephone service activity handling module . For example the public telephone service provider may forward a call destined for a grouped telephone number to the telephone service provider interface and the telephone service activity handling module may process the call in accordance with one or more telephone service activity processing policies. In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention telephone service activity processing policies may be at least partially implemented utilizing a rules engine interpreting processing and or executing one or more activity handling rules. Such rules may be configured responsive to user selection for example by an activity handling rule configuration module and stored in an activity handling rule datastore . Activity handling rules may be of any suitable type including statements of an interpreted or compiled computer programming language. Activity handling rules may specify any suitable telephony protocol state action and or parameter and or modifications thereof. The telephone service activity handling module may include one or more sub modules for handling particular types of telephone service activity such as the inbound telephone service activity handling module the outbound telephone service activity handling module and the emergency telephone service activity module .

The activity handling rule configuration module may determine sets of one or more rules that implement telephone service activity handling policies including grouped telephone number call policies such as grouped telephone number incoming call policies and grouped telephone number outgoing call policies and similar policies for other types of telephone service activity such as SMS messaging. The telephone number grouping service may incorporate default and or hardcoded telephone service activity handling policies. Alternatively or in addition telephone service activity handling policies may be specified and or customized with one or more user interfaces by a service user and or administrator. An ordinary service user may customize policies with limited applicability to registered telephone numbers and or telephone service user devices associated with the user and or a user group for which the user is authorized to customize policies. A system administrator may create read update and delete policies that are applicable to all service users.

For example a grouped telephone number call policy may specify one or more aspects of telephone number grouping service behavior with respect to telephone calls to or from telephone service user devices associated with grouped telephone numbers. Such policies may control user experience with respect to use of the telephone number grouping service . One or more telephone service user devices may be associated with a group of telephone numbers and a grouped telephone number incoming call policy may specify which of the group of telephone numbers are activated responsive to an incoming call e.g. are dialed in preparation for participating in the call . Associated telephone service user devices may be activated simultaneously or in a specified order. A grouped telephone number outgoing call policy may specify which of the group of telephone numbers is designated as primary for the group. Calls from any of the telephone service user devices associated with the group may be modified such that the calls appear to originate from the designated primary telephone number of the group. For example associated Caller ID data may be modified to match the designated primary telephone number of the group.

The telephone number grouping service may include a telephone number group identification service . The telephone number group identification service may be configured at least to determine one or more telephone number groups with which a particular telephone number and or registered telephone service user device is associated. For example a telephone number group data object e.g. a data object characterizing a telephone number group for programmatic purposes may include and or reference a telephone number group identifier a collection of telephone numbers that are members of the telephone number group and one or more representative telephone numbers sometimes called primary telephone numbers herein that publically represent the telephone number group in the public telephone network .

The telephone number group identification service may be utilized by any suitable component of the telephone number grouping service including the user interface s the telephone service provider interface the telephone service activity handling component and the activity handling rule configuration component . For example the telephone service activity handling component may provide the telephone number group identification service with a telephone number associated with inbound and or outbound telephone service activity and receive a telephone group identifier and or a group representative telephone number in response. Alternatively or in addition the telephone number group identification service may be accessed directly by components external to the telephone number grouping service for example as part of third party integration of applications and or services utilizing the telephone number groups maintained by the telephone number grouping service . The telephone number group identification service may base the determination on data stored in the user datastore and or the registered device datastore .

In the example depicted in the devices having telephone numbers y and z respectively are registered as grouped devices having primary telephone number x. Primary telephone number x may be a separately provisioned telephone number e.g. responsive to group registration or the user may have selected one of telephone numbers y and z to be the primary telephone number e.g. with user interface s of . Device dials primary telephone number x. Public telephone service provider recognizes telephone number x as configured for delegation to the grouping service and forwards the call to the grouping service . In response the grouping service forks the call into two new calls destined for telephone numbers y and z. Answering the call with device or begins the call. During the call the grouping service may act as a call bridge. Alternatively or in addition the grouping service may return call control to the public telephone service provider once the call is established.

In the example depicted in the devices having telephone numbers a and b respectively are registered as grouped devices having primary telephone number a. Device originates a call to telephone number c associated with telephone service user device . At this point the call appears to originate at telephone number b. Public telephone service provider recognizes telephone number b as configured for delegation to the grouping service and forwards the call to the grouping service . In response the grouping service forwards the call to telephone number c but modifies data associated with the call so that the call appears to originate at the designated primary telephone number a.

Having described aspects of suitable telecommunication environments and system architectures the description now turns to procedures that may be performed therewith. depicts example steps for providing a telephone number grouping service in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention. At step one or more telephone numbers may be provisioned for example by the public telephone service provider . At step a request may be received to delegate service activity for a group of telephone numbers. For example the request may be received from the grouping service responsive to user registration of the group of telephone numbers. At step the requested delegation may be configured. For example a suitable telecommunication switch may be configured to delegate service activity with respect to telephone numbers in the group of telephone numbers to the grouping service .

At step service activity by a telephone service user device may be detected. For example a telecommunication switch may detect an incoming call. At step it may be determined whether the service activity is associated with a telephone number configured for delegation to the grouping service. If so a procedure including step may progress to step . Otherwise the procedure may progress to step . At step service activity processing for the detected service activity may be delegated to the grouping service . For example the incoming call may be forwarded to the grouping service . At step the service activity may be processed as normal and or usual for example by the public telephone service provider . At times a procedure performing step may progress to step to resume normal service activity processing. Alternatively or in addition service activity processing control may remain delegated for the lifetime of the service activity.

At step delegation of service activity processing related to telephone numbers in the group may be received for example with the telephone service provider interface . At step the group may be identified for example by the telephone service activity handling module and or the telephone number group identification service . The identity of the telephone number group may correspond to a representative group telephone number and or an explicit telephone number group identifier having any suitable form. At step one or more processing policies for the delegated service activity may be determined. For example the telephone service activity handling module may determine the appropriate policies based at least in part on the identified group e.g. different policies may be configured for different groups . At step the delegated service activity may be processed in accordance with the determined policy or policies. For example the telephone service activity handling module may identify and execute a set of rules in the activity handling rule datastore corresponding to the determined policy or policies.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention the system apparatus methods processes and or operations described above may be wholly or partially implemented in the form of a set of instructions executed by one or more programmed computer processors such as a central processing unit CPU or microprocessor. Such processors may be incorporated in an apparatus server client or other computing device operated by or in communication with other components of the system. As an example depicts aspects of elements that may be present in a computing device and or system configured to implement a method and or process in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention. The subsystems shown in are interconnected via a system bus . Additional subsystems include a printer a keyboard a fixed disk and a monitor which is coupled to a display adapter . Peripherals and input output I O devices which couple to an I O controller can be connected to the computer system with any number of means known in the art such as a serial port . For example the serial port or an external interface can be utilized to connect the computing device to further devices and or systems not shown in including a wide area network such as the Internet a mouse input device and or a scanner. The interconnection via the system bus allows one or more processors to communicate with each subsystem and to control the execution of instructions that may be stored in a system memory and or the fixed disk as well as the exchange of information between subsystems. The system memory and or the fixed disk may embody a tangible non transitory computer readable medium.

Example 1 a method for telephone number grouping including provisioning by a telephone service provider a plurality of telephone numbers including associating each of the plurality of telephone numbers with a particular telephone service user device of a plurality of telephone service user devices registering with a telephone number grouping service at least two telephone numbers of the plurality of telephone numbers as grouped telephone numbers with respect to incoming and outgoing telephone calls providing by the telephone service provider to the telephone number grouping service at least partial call control for incoming and outgoing telephone calls with respect to the grouped telephone numbers with respect to incoming telephone calls activating one or more of the plurality of telephone service user devices associated with the grouped telephone numbers in accordance with a user configured grouped telephone number incoming call policy and with respect to an outgoing telephone call from a telephone service user device associated with the grouped telephone numbers causing the outgoing telephone call to appear to originate from a selected telephone number of the grouped telephone numbers in accordance with a user configured grouped telephone number outgoing call policy.

Example 2 a method in accordance with example 1 wherein the telephone service provider comprises the telephone number grouping service. Example 3 a method in accordance with example 1 or 2 wherein each provisioned telephone number is associated with a subscriber identity module SIM . Example 4 a method in accordance with example 1 2 or 3 wherein the grouped telephone number incoming call policy or the grouped telephone number outgoing call policy is user configured. Example 5 a method in accordance with example 1 3 or 4 wherein the telephone service provider is one of a plurality of telephone service providers that provision telephone numbers. Example 6 a method in accordance with example 1 4 or 5 wherein the grouped telephone number incoming call policy specifies at least that each of the telephone service user devices associated with the grouped telephone numbers is simultaneously activated in response to an incoming telephone call with respect to any of the grouped telephone numbers. Example 7 a method in accordance with example 1 5 or 6 wherein the telephone number grouping service causes the telephone service provider to provision an additional telephone number associated with the grouped telephone numbers and distinct from each of the at least two registered telephone numbers.

Example 8 a method for telephone service activity processing including registering at least two telephone numbers of a plurality of telephone numbers as grouped telephone numbers the plurality of telephone numbers having been provisioned by a telephone service provider receiving from the telephone service provider at least partial service control for telephone service activity with respect to the grouped telephone numbers and processing the telephone service activity in accordance with a grouped telephone number call policy such that outgoing service activity appears to originate from a single telephone number and incoming service activity is forwarded to one or more associated telephone service user devices independent of a specified number of the grouped telephone numbers.

Example 9 a method in accordance with example 8 wherein the telephone service activity comprises one or more of a telephone call or a short message service SMS message. Example 10 a method in accordance with example 8 or 9 wherein receiving at least partial service control comprises one or more of being delegated responsibility for one or more aspects of a telephony protocol with respect to the telephone service activity being enabled to modify one or more aspects of a telephony protocol with respect to the telephone service activity or becoming a service proxy with respect to the telephone service activity.

Example 11 a method in accordance with example 8 9 or 10 wherein receiving at least partial service control comprises one or more of intercepting a telephone call destined for one or more of the grouped telephone numbers being forwarded a telephone call destined for one or more of the grouped telephone numbers intercepting a telephone call originated by one or more of the grouped telephone numbers being forwarded a telephone call originated by one or more of the grouped telephone numbers. Example 12 a method in accordance with example 8 10 or 11 wherein receiving at least partial service control comprises one or more of intercepting a short message service SMS message destined for one or more of the grouped telephone numbers being forwarded an SMS message destined for one or more of the grouped telephone numbers intercepting an SMS message originated by one or more of the grouped telephone numbers being forwarded an SMS message originated by one or more of the grouped telephone numbers. Example 13 a method in accordance with example 8 11 or 12 wherein processing the telephone service activity comprises one or more of performing one or more aspects of a telephony protocol with respect to the telephone service activity modifying one or more aspects of a telephony protocol with respect to the telephone service activity acting as a service proxy with respect to the telephone service activity or causing one or more telephone service user devices associated with the grouped telephone numbers to be signaled in accordance with a telephony protocol.

Example 14 a method in accordance with example 8 12 or 13 wherein processing the telephone service activity comprises one or more of causing a telephone call to be forwarded to one or more telephone service user devices associated with the grouped telephone numbers or causing a telephone call to be forwarded to each telephone service user device associated with the grouped telephone numbers. Example 15 a method in accordance with example 8 13 or 14 wherein processing the telephone service activity comprises one or more of causing a short message service SMS message to be forwarded to one or more telephone service user devices associated with the grouped telephone numbers or causing an SMS message to be forwarded to each telephone service user device associated with the grouped telephone numbers. Example 16 a method in accordance with example 8 14 or 15 wherein receiving at least partial service control for the telephone service activity comprises receiving at least partial service control for a telephone call originating from a first telephone number of the grouped telephone numbers and processing the telephone call comprises modifying data associated with the telephone call to cause the telephone call to appear to originate from a second telephone number of the grouped telephone numbers.

Example 17 a system for telephone service activity processing including a user interface component configured at least to register at least two telephone numbers of a plurality of telephone numbers as grouped telephone numbers the plurality of telephone numbers having been provisioned by a telephone service provider a telephone service provider interface component configured at least to receive from the telephone service provider at least partial service control for telephone service activity with respect to the grouped telephone numbers and a telephone service activity handling component configured at least to process the telephone service activity in accordance with a grouped telephone number call policy such that outgoing service activity appears to originate from a single telephone number and incoming service activity is forwarded to one or more associated telephone service user devices independent of a specified number of the grouped telephone numbers.

Example 18 a system in accordance with example 17 wherein the telephone service provider interface component is communicatively coupled with a telecommunications switch of the telephone service provider. Example 19 a system in accordance with example 17 or 18 wherein the user interface component maintains a graphical user interface configured at least to enable users of the system to specify the at least two telephone numbers to be registered as the grouped telephone numbers. Example 20 a system in accordance with example 17 18 or 19 wherein the user interface component maintains a graphical user interface configured at least to enable users of the system to specify the grouped telephone number call policy for the grouped telephone numbers.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and or were set forth in its entirety herein.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the specification and in the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms having including containing and similar referents in the specification and in the following claims are to be construed as open ended terms e.g. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely indented to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value inclusively falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate embodiments of the invention and does not pose a limitation to the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to each embodiment of the present invention.

Numerical data may be expressed or presented herein in a range format. It is to be understood that such a range format is used merely for convenience and brevity and thus should be interpreted flexibly to include not only the numerical values explicitly recited as the limits of the range but also interpreted to include all of the individual numerical values or sub ranges encompassed within that range as if each numerical value and sub range is explicitly recited. As an illustration a numerical range of about 1 to 5 should be interpreted to include not only the explicitly recited values of about 1 to about 5 but also include individual values and sub ranges within the indicated range. Thus included in this numerical range are individual values such as 2 3 and 4 and sub ranges such as 1 3 2 4 and 3 5 etc. This same principle applies to ranges reciting only one numerical value e.g. greater than about 1 and should apply regardless of the breadth of the range or the characteristics being described. A plurality of items may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without clear indication to the contrary.

As used herein the term alternatively refers to selection of one of two or more alternatives and is not intended to limit the selection to only those listed alternatives or to only one of the listed alternatives at a time unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. The term substantially means that the recited characteristic parameter or value need not be achieved exactly but that deviations or variations including for example tolerances measurement error measurement accuracy limitations and other factors known to those of skill in the art may occur in amounts that do not preclude the effect the characteristic was intended to provide.

Different arrangements of the components depicted in the drawings or described above as well as components and steps not shown or described are possible. Similarly some features and subcombinations are useful and may be employed without reference to other features and subcombinations. Embodiments of the invention have been described for illustrative and not restrictive purposes and alternative embodiments will become apparent to readers of this patent. Accordingly the present invention is not limited to the embodiments described above or depicted in the drawings and various embodiments and modifications can be made without departing from the scope of the claims below.

