---

title: Dynamically updating privacy settings in a social network
abstract: A social network allows its members to regulate what data is accessible to other members using one or more privacy settings. A particular member of the social network can modify the one or privacy settings to grant or deny different users access to different data. When a member modifies a privacy setting, the social network determines which information pathways communicating data between members are affected. The affected information pathways are then modified responsive to the privacy setting to communicate data identified by the modified privacy setting and enforce the new privacy restrictions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09218496&OS=09218496&RS=09218496
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09218496
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140312
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 206 556 filed Sep. 8 2008 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 967 842 filed Sep. 7 2007 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This invention relates generally to privacy settings and in particular to dynamically updating privacy settings of a social network user.

Social networks or social utilities that track and enable connections between members including people businesses and other entities have become prevalent in recent years. Social networking websites allow members to communicate information more efficiently. A member has a profile that describes the member s interests geographic location age interests or hobbies or other information describing the member. For example a member may post contact information background information job information hobbies and or other member specific data to a profile associated with the member on a social networking website. Other members can then review the posted data by browsing member profiles or searching for profiles including specific data. The social networking websites also allow members to associate themselves with other members thus creating a web of connections among the members of the social networking website. These connections among the members can be exploited by the website to offer more relevant information to each member in view of the members own stated interests in their connections.

Social networking websites typically allow users to select a variety of privacy settings related to applications subscription based services other members and the like. The privacy settings regulate the ability of additional members to access data associated with a member. For example the privacy settings allow the member to allow a certain group of members such as the member s friends to access member data while preventing members outside of the group from access member data. However in a social network website member data is distributed using a variety of channels some of which indirectly communicate data between members. For example a first user may obtain information about a second user through data about the first user received by members who are common friends of the first user and the second user.

Conventionally when a user modifies a privacy setting direct data communication between the user and additional users is modified accordingly. However because a social networking website includes multiple information pathways in which data can be communicated between users to implement a privacy setting effectively each affected information pathway needs to be modified to prevent data distribution through indirect data pathways. Hence to implement privacy settings in a social networking website effectively each information pathway communicating data between users needs to be identified and modified according to the privacy setting.

In accordance with embodiments of the invention members of social network can regulate what information about themselves is accessible to other members using one or more privacy settings. This allows members to preserve the privacy of their data regulate what additional members can access their data or allow unrestricted access to their data. Using the one or more privacy settings a member can provide different levels of accessibility to different data associated with the member. For example a member can allow only the member s friends to access a subset of the data associated with the member and prevent other members from accessing data associated with the member. Members are permitted to modify the one or more privacy settings while using the social network.

A social network also includes multiple information pathways such as communicating a newsfeed story to a member communicating a newsfeed story to a friend of the member viewing a picture associated with the member viewing a video associated with the member communicating information about an event to the member joining a group the member joins or returning a search result including data associated with the member. As each of these information pathways allows data to be distributed to various members modification of a privacy setting is propagated to each information pathway to modify data about a member that is accessible by other members via an information pathway.

When a member modifies a privacy setting by directly modifying the privacy setting or taking one or more other actions to adjust the privacy setting the social network determines which information pathways between members are affected by the modified privacy setting. For example if a first user modifies a privacy setting to prevent a second user from accessing data about the first user the information pathways which communicate data to the second user e.g. newsfeed stories communicated to the second user and newsfeed stories communicated to common friends of the first user and second user are identified. The information pathways are then modified responsive to the privacy setting so that data identified by the privacy setting is communicated using the information pathways. For example the social network terminates an information pathway between the first user and the second user if the second user is prohibited from receiving data about the first user.

The features and advantages described in the specification are not all inclusive and in particular many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims. Moreover it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter.

The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

A social networking website offers its members the ability to communicate and interact with other members of the website. In use members join the social networking website and then add connections to a number of other members to whom they desire to be connected. As used herein the term friend refers to any other member to whom a member has formed a connection association or relationship via the website. Connections may be added explicitly by a member for example the member selecting a particular other member to be a friend or automatically created by the social networking site based on common characteristics of the members e.g. members who are alumni of the same educational institution . Connections in social networking websites are usually in both directions but need not be so the terms member and friend depend on the frame of reference. For example if Bob and Joe are both members and connected to each other in the website Bob and Joe both members are also each other s friends. The connection between members may be a direct connection however some embodiments of a social networking website allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections. Also the term friend need not require that members actually be friends in real life which would generally be the case when one of the members is a business or other entity it simply implies a connection in the social networking website.

In addition to interactions with other members the social networking website provides members with the ability to take actions on various types of items supported by the website. These items may include groups or networks where networks here refer not to physical communication networks but rather social networks of people to which members of the website may belong events or calendar entries in which a member might be interested computer based applications that a member may use via the website and transactions that allow members to buy or sell items via the website. These are just a few examples of the items upon which a member may act on a social networking website and many others are possible.

As illustrated the social networking website maintains a number of objects for the different kinds of items with which a member may interact on the website . In one example embodiment these objects include member profiles group objects event objects application objects and transaction objects respectively hereinafter groups events applications and transactions . In one embodiment an object is stored by the website for each instance of its associated item. For example a member profile including a privacy setting is stored for each member who joins the website a group is stored for each group defined in the website and so on. The types of objects and the data stored for each is described in more detail below in connection with which illustrates an embodiment of the social networking website .

The member of the website may take specific actions on the website where each action is associated with one or more objects. The types of actions that a member may perform in connection with an object are defined for each object and largely depend on the type of item represented by the object. A particular action may be associated with multiple objects. Described below are a number of examples of particular types of objects that may be defined for the social networking website as well as a number of actions that can be taken for each object. These objects and the actions discussed herein are provided for illustration purposes only and it can be appreciated that an unlimited number of variations and features can be provided on a social networking website .

The social networking website maintains a member profile for each member of the website . Any action that a particular member takes with respect to another member is associated with each member s profile . Such actions may include for example adding a connection to the other member sending a message to the other member reading a message from the other member viewing content associated with the other member attending an event posted by another member among others. In addition a number of actions described below in connection with other objects are directed at particular members so these actions are associated with those members as well.

A group may be defined for a group or network of members. For example a member may define a group to be a fan club for a particular band. The website would maintain a group for that fan club which might include information about the band media content e.g. songs or music videos by the band and discussion boards on which members of the group can comment about the band. Accordingly member actions that are possible with respect to a group might include joining the group viewing the content listening to songs watching videos and posting a message on the discussion board.

Similarly an event may be defined for a particular event such as a birthday party. A member may create the event by defining information about the event such as the time and place and a list of invitees. Other members may accept the invitation comment about the event post their own content e.g. pictures from the event and perform any other actions enabled by the website for the event . Accordingly the creator of the event as well as the invitees for the event may perform various actions that are associated with that .

The social networking website may also enable members to add applications to their profiles. These applications provide enhanced content and interactivity within the social networking website which maintains an application object for each application hosted in the system. The applications may be provided by the website operator and or by third party developers. An example application is an enhanced messaging service in which members can send virtual objects such as a gift or flowers and an optional message to another member. The use of any functionality offered by the application may thus constitute an action by the member in connection with the application . In addition continuing the example from above the receipt of the virtual gift or message may also be considered an action in connection with the application . It can therefore be appreciated that actions may be passive and need not require active participation by a member.

Another type of object shown in the example of is a transaction . A transaction object enables members to make transactions such as buying selling renting trading or exchanging with other members. For example a member may post a classified ad on the social networking website to sell a car. The member would thus define a new transaction which may include a description of the car a picture and an asking price. Other members can then view this information and possibly interact further with the transaction by posting questions about the car and accepting the offer or making a counteroffer. Each of these interactions view question posting offer and counteroffer are actions that are associated with the particular transaction .

When a member takes an action on the social networking website the action is recorded in an action log shown in . In one embodiment the website maintains the action log as a database of entries. When an action is taken on the website therefore the website adds an entry for that action to the log . In one embodiment an entry comprises some or all of the following information 

It can be appreciated that many types of actions that are possible in the web site need not require all of this information. For example if a member changes a picture associated with the member s profile the action may be logged with just the member s identifier an action type defining a picture change and the picture or a link thereto as the content.

In one embodiment the social networking website also logs actions that a member takes on a third party website . The social networking website may learn of the member s actions on the third party website via any of a number of methods. For example the third party website may send a message to the social networking website when a particular action by a member occurs on the third party website . In one example if the third party website is a commercial website on which members may purchase items the third party website may inform the social networking website when a member of the social networking website buys an item on the third party website .

In another embodiment the social networking website logs actions taken by its members in the real world. These actions may be recorded by an action terminal which observes qualifying actions and then communicates that action to the social networking website . The communication may be via email SMS or any other appropriate means where the communicated message includes sufficient information for the social networking website to populate the action log with an entry describing the action. The action terminal may comprise any suitable devices or systems for the particular type of action to be tracked.

In one embodiment the action to be tracked is a credit card transaction where a member of the social networking website may optionally opt in by registering a credit card. When the registered credit card is used in a qualifying way e.g. a purchase made at a point of sale the credit card company or clearinghouse sends a message to the social networking website . In this scenario a computing system at the credit card company or clearinghouse serves as a action terminal . The message may contain information about the credit card transaction such the item purchased the date and location of the purchase. The social networking system thus tracks real world actions such as this purchase in the action log .

Another example illustrating real world actions that may be tracked involves the member s location. A member may configure a cellular phone having location technology e.g. GPS to communicate the member s location to the social networking website . This may be accomplished for example by downloading an application to the cellular phone where the application polls the location unit in the phone and sends a message containing the member s location to the social networking website . This may be performed periodically or upon certain triggering events associated with locations. For example a triggering event can include the member being within to a specific city or at particular destination such as a restaurant business or venue. In this application the cellular phone or other GPS enabled device serves as the action terminal .

Another example illustrating real world actions that may be tracked involves what program material the member is accessing on a television system. A television and or set top receiver may act as an action terminal and transmit a message indicating that a member is viewing or recording a particular program on a particular channel at a particular time. Again these examples are presented to illustrate some of the types of devices and actions that may be captured as actions by a member and communicated to the social networking website . A limitless variety of other applications may be implemented to capture real world actions associated with a particular member and send that information to the social networking website .

After an amount of time the action log will become populated with a number of entries that describe actions taken by the members of the social networking website . The action log thus contains a very rich set of data about the actions of the members and can be analyzed and filtered to identify trends and relationships in the actions of the members as well as affinities between the members and various objects. This action log can in some cases be filtered to include only actions that are likely to be interesting to other members.

The client devices comprise one or more computing devices that can receive member input and can transmit and receive data via the network . For example the client devices may be desktop computers laptop computers smart phones personal digital assistants PDAs or any other device including computing functionality and data communication capabilities. The client devices are configured to communicate via network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and wireless communication systems. As described above the third party website and the action terminal are coupled to the network for communicating messages to the social networking website about the members actions off the website .

The social networking website comprises a computing system that allows members to communicate or otherwise interact with each other and access content as described herein. The social networking website stores member profiles that describe the members of a social network including biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences location and the like. The website further stores data describing one or more relationships between different members. The relationship information may indicate members who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies or educational history. Additionally the social networking website includes member defined relationships between different members allowing members to specify their relationships with other members. For example these member defined relationships allows members to generate relationships with other members that parallel the members real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Members may select from predefined types of relationships or define their own relationship types as needed.

The web server links the social networking website via the network to one or more client devices as well as to one or more third party websites . The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between the social networking website and the client devices or third party websites . The messages can be instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS messages or any other suitable messaging technique.

The action logger is capable of receiving communications from the web server about member actions on and or off the social networking website . The received actions can occur within the social networking website as well on other websites via an application programming interface exposed by the social networking website . In one embodiment the social networking website maintains the action log as a database of entries. When an action is taken on and or off the social networking website an entry for that action is generated and stored by the action logger . Examples of user actions within the social networking website include sending a message to a friend using a third party application joining a group leaving a group adding a relationship to another user removing a relationship to another user modifying a stored user profile generating an event description or other modification or retrieval of data stored by the social networking website . Examples of user actions outside of the social networking website include purchasing or reviewing a product or service using an online marketplace hosted by a third party website registering with or subscribing to a website hosted by a third party application server purchase requesting information from the third party website similar actions performed on a third party website .

The action logger includes data describing the member performing the action the time the action occurred an identifier for the member who performed the action an identifier for the member to whom the action was directed an identifier for the type of action performed an identifier for an object acted on by the action e.g. an application content associated with the action where the action occurred and or other data describing the action. It can be appreciated that many types of actions that are possible in the social networking website need not require all of this information. For example if a member changes a picture associated with the member s profile the action may be logged with just the member s identifier an action type defining a picture change and the picture or a link thereto as the content. The action logger can communicate with the member profile store event store and or the group store allowing events users and or groups to be associated with an action. The action logger can organize the stored action data according to an action identifier which uniquely identifies each stored action.

The action logger can store actions based on when the action occurred. In one embodiment a single action logger stores actions from all of the social network website members and organizes the stored actions according to member identifiers or partitions the action log to allocate storage for different members. Alternatively the social network website includes multiple action loggers associated with different subsets of members such as by affiliation group geography or the like.

The newsfeed generator generates communications for each member about information that may be relevant to the member. These communications may take the form of stories each story is an information message comprising one or a few lines of information about an action in the action log that is relevant to the particular member. The stories are presented to a member via one or more pages of the social networking website for example in each member s home page or newsfeed page. A story is a message that summarizes condenses or abstracts one or more member actions from the action log . The generated news feed stories can then be transmitted to one or more related members e.g. the member s friends allowing the member s actions to be shared with related members. The newsfeed generator applies an affinity algorithm to the contents of the action log and member profile store to account for a member s relationships with other members or groups as specified in the member profile store and or group store to select the actions from the action log that are to be the basis of one or more stories for distribution to the related users. By accounting for the user relationships with other users and or groups the newsfeed generator determines data from the action log most relevant to other related users.

For example the newsfeed generator generates a message identifying a particular member e.g. User A the type of action and optionally another member group or other entity affected by the action e.g. User A joined Group 1 . For various messages the newsfeed generator determines the interest of various related users to different messages associated with the given user. For example the newsfeed generator determines how recently a related user accessed data from or associated with the given user how often a related user has accessed data from or associated with the given user the amount of common or similar data in the profiles of the given user and the related user and or other factors representative of user interest in a particular message. Based on the determined level of related user interest a message is communicated to those related users with the highest interest in the information message. This process can also be applied to action logs or action log content associated with members related to a specific member. For example for a given user A the action logs of related members B C D E can be processed for a selected interval and one or more messages constructed for member A based on the actions of members B C D and E. Thus member A may receive messages such as Users B and C are attending event X or User C sent User D a gift or User D is now friends with User E. 

The ad server is communicatively coupled to the member profile store group store database of ad requests and to the action log . The ad server selects an ad request from the database of ad requests based on data from the member profile store group store and or the action log to identify an ad for presentation to the user. Hence the ad server uses data from a member profile a member s group affiliation and prior actions to determine one or more ads that are most relevant to the characteristics and actions of a member.

The privacy engine monitors the contents of the member profile store to identify changes to the member profiles associated with one or more member. In an embodiment the privacy engine also monitors member behaviors and or content received by a member. For example the privacy engine monitors applications in the application data store accessed or retrieved by a member or monitors the newsfeed received by a member to identify additional related members. When a member modifies his or her associated member profile such as a privacy setting included in the member profile the privacy engine synchronizes the changes to the member profile with the information received by the member making the change and or the information communicated to other members from the member making the change. For example if user A modifies the member profile associated with user B to prevent user B from receiving information about user A news stories about user A previously accessible by user B are not longer accessible by user B. Thus when a member changes a privacy setting in a member profile relating to other members or entities information about each member is modified to correspond to the change in the privacy setting. Although the above example describes changing a privacy setting associated with other users the member profile may include a plurality of privacy settings such as a privacy setting associated with applications a privacy setting associated with groups or a privacy setting associated with any other entity receiving or transmitting data via the social networking website .

In one embodiment the privacy engine analyzes the information pathways which provide data to a member such as news stories received by a member news stores received by friends of the member pictures or other data associated with a member events the member receives data about groups the member is affiliated with and other sources of information about the member. These information pathways describe to the different ways in which the social networking website distributes information including the indirect distribution of information via common friends or common applications or sharing of pictures or other images. By analyzing the information pathways associated with a member the privacy engine ensures that changes to a member profile are propagated to multiple information pathways more effectively limiting access to the data according to the modified member profile. For example when user A changes a relationship between user A and user B the privacy engine determines the information pathways communicating data between user A and user B and modifies the data communicated via the information pathway between user A and user B. Hence if user A s member profile is modified to block user B from accessing news stories about user A distributed to user A s friends the privacy engine ensures that user B cannot subsequently access pictures of user A having access limited to user A s friends.

In one embodiment the privacy engine also verifies member profile changes with the member associated with the member profile. For example the privacy engine emails user A to confirm that a change to user A s member profile limiting user B s access to stores about user A also limits user B s access to pictures associated with user A. This allows a member to differently limit access to different data associated with the member by modifying the member s profile. Additionally the privacy engine may allow a member to suppress one or more specific data items or stories from being distributed to other uses via the social network. When a specific data item or story is suppressed from distribution the privacy engine may also prevent a similar data item or story item from being distributed to other members.

Additionally the privacy engine may also monitor searches which include content from the social networking website . For example the privacy engine limits some or all of the information about a member that is returned in a search of the social networking website . For example the privacy engine compares a cookie or other identification mechanism associated with the member who last logged onto the social networking website with the member performing a search to determine wither the member performing the search is allows to access certain user data as search results. For example if user B is blocked from accessing information about user A the privacy engine prevents user A s information from being presented as search results responsive to user B performing a search of the social networking website .

In another embodiment the privacy engine provides different privacy settings for different groups or categories of users. For example user A generates a list of friends a list of work colleagues a list of high school acquaintances and the like. The privacy engine may allow user A to specify a privacy setting for each list generated by user A.

As discussed above the social networking website maintains data about a number of different types of objects with which a member may interact on the website . To this end each of the member profile store the group store the event store the application data store and the transaction store stores a data structure to manage the data for each instance of the corresponding type of object maintained by the website . The data structures comprise information fields that are suitable for the corresponding type of object. For example the event store contains data structures that include the time and location for an event whereas the member profile store contains data structures with fields suitable for describing a member s profile. When a new object of a particular type is created the website initializes a new data structure of the corresponding type assigns a unique object identifier to it and begins to add data to the object as needed. This might occur for example when a member defines a new event wherein the website would generate a new instance of an event in the event store assign a unique identifier to the event and begin to populate the fields of the event with information provided by the member.

When a change to a privacy setting is identified the privacy engine determines the information pathways affected by the change to the privacy setting. As the social networking website allows data to be distributed to users in various methods the relevant data distribution methods are determined to propagate the change to the privacy setting. For example if user A changes a privacy setting regulating user B s access to newsfeed stories about user A the privacy engine determines that the change to the privacy setting also affects stories about user A that user B can access via common friends of user A and user B. The privacy engine may also determine that the change to user A s privacy setting also affects pictures associated with user A that user B may still access and or the change to user A s privacy setting affects search results including user A. This allows the privacy engine to propagate the privacy setting change to various information pathways providing access to data associated with user A. In an embodiment the privacy engine examines each information pathway associated with user A to determine whether the information pathway is affected by the change to the privacy setting.

The privacy engine then modifies access to information communicated using the information pathways affected by the privacy setting change. In one embodiment the privacy engine removes information pathways to prevent access to member data. For example the privacy engine removes one or more information pathways to restrict user B to accessing data about user A that user A has designated as available to everyone. Alternatively the privacy engine generates one or more information pathways between user A and user B responsive to a privacy setting change granting user B access to data about user A.

The fields in the privacy settings specify whether a newsfeed story is generated and transmitted to other members when an action involving the data described by the field occurs. For example the information field specifies whether a newsfeed story is communicated to other members when a member modifies one or more member profile settings. Similarly the friend addition field specifies whether a newsfeed story is transmitted when the member adds a new friend such as by accepting a friend request from another member. In an embodiment the privacy settings are binary values specifying whether or not a story is generated when various types of actions occur. In one embodiment the privacy settings also include a frequency setting associated with one or more fields. The frequency setting specifies how often newsfeed stories about a type of action are communicated to other members allowing the member to regulate how frequently information is distributed to other members.

When a user modifies one or more privacy settings the privacy engine determines information pathways affected by the change and modifies the information pathways affected to implement the modified privacy setting. Additionally the privacy engine adjusts member data displayed in search results from a search engine internal to or external to the social networking website . This allows members to prevent member data from being returned in search results or specify a subset of member data that is returned in search results. The privacy engine allows members to both limit access to member data to specific members while also allowing a subset of member data to be accessible as search engine results. For example if user A elects to have profile data accessible through search engines but prevents user B from accessing user A s profile data the privacy engine modifies the information accessible by user B to prevent user B from accessing information about user A in a search result.

The present invention has been described in particular detail with respect to a limited number of embodiments. Those of skill in the art will appreciate that the invention may additionally be practiced in other embodiments. First the particular naming of the components capitalization of terms the attributes data structures or any other programming or structural aspect is not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the invention or its features may have different names formats or protocols. Furthermore the system may be implemented via a combination of hardware and software as described or entirely in hardware elements. Also the particular division of functionality between the various system components described herein is merely exemplary and not mandatory functions performed by a single system component may instead be performed by multiple components and functions performed by multiple components may instead performed by a single component. Additionally although the foregoing embodiments have been described in the context of a social network website it will apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the invention may be used with any social network service even if it is not provided through a website. Any system that provides social networking functionality can be used in accordance with the present invention even if it relies for example on e mail instant messaging or any other form of peer to peer communications or any other technique for communicating between users. Systems used to provide social networking functionality include a distributed computing system client side code modules or plug ins client server architecture a peer to peer communication system or other systems. The invention is thus not limited to any particular type of communication system network protocol format or application.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave where the computer data signal includes any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein. The computer data signal is a product that is presented in a tangible medium or carrier wave and modulated or otherwise encoded in the carrier wave which is tangible and transmitted according to any suitable transmission method.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

