---

title: Wearable transdermal electrical stimulation devices and methods of using them
abstract: Apparatuses (e.g., devices, systems), and methods for transdermal electrical stimulation (TES). Apparatuses described herein can be self-contained, lightweight, and wearable. The apparatus may include a primary unit (TES stimulator) and an electrode portion that includes a first transdermal electrode and a second transdermal electrode and mates with the TES stimulator. The first electrode and secondary electrode are placed at two locations on the skin of a user, for example on the head and/or neck of a user. Electrical stimulation driven between the two electrodes may induce a cognitive effect in a user of the device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09440070&OS=09440070&RS=09440070
owner: Thyne Global, Inc.
number: 09440070
owner_city: Los Gatos
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141202
---
This application claims the benefit as a Continuation in Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 091 121 filed Nov. 26 2013 titled WEARABLE TRANSDERMAL ELECTRICAL STIMULATION DEVICES AND METHODS OF USING THEM Publication No. US 2014 0148872 AI now U.S. Pat. No. 8 903 494 which claimed the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 729 851 filed Nov. 26 2012 titled DISPOSABLE AND SEMI DISPOSABLE TRANSCRANIAL ELECTRICAL STIMULATION SYSTEMS U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 765 795 filed Feb. 17 2013 titled TRANSCRANIAL ELECTRICAL STIMULATION SYSTEMS U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 767 945 filed Feb. 22 2013 titled TRANSCRANIAL NEUROMODULATION SYSTEMS U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 770 479 filed Feb. 28 2013 titled TRANSCRANIAL NEUROMODULATION CONTROLLER AND DELIVERY SYSTEMS U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 841 308 filed Jun. 29 2013 titled TRANSCRANIAL ELECTRICAL STIMULATIONS SYSTEMS U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 845 845 filed Jul. 12 2013 titled TRANSCRANIAL ELECTRICAL STIMULATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 875 424 filed Sep. 9 2013 titled TRANSCRANIAL ELECTRICAL STIMULATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 900 880 filed Nov. 6 2013 titled NEUROMODULATION CONTROL AND USER INTERFACE SYSTEMS U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 875 891 filed on Sep. 10 2013 titled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR TRANSCRANIAL ELECTRICAL STIMULATION DURING A PERFORMANCE OR GROUP INVENT U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 888 910 filed on Oct. 9 2013 titled TRANSCRANIAL ELECTRICAL STIMULATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 907 394 filed on Nov. 22 2013 titled TRANSCRANIAL ELECTRICAL STIMULATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS each of which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This patent application also claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 076 459 filed Nov. 6 2014 titled CANTILEVER ELECTRODES FOR TRANSDERMAL AND TRANSCRANIAL STIMULATION which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This application may also be related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 320 443 filed Jun. 30 2014 titled TRANSDERMAL ELECTRICAL STIMULATION METHODS FOR MODIFYING OR INDUCING COGNITIVE STATE. and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 320 461 filed Jun. 30 2014 titled TRANSDERMAL ELECTRICAL STIMULATION DEVICES FOR MODIFYING OR INDUCING COGNITIVE STATE each of which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

All publications and patent applications mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

The present application relates to apparatuses e.g. systems and devices and methods for noninvasive neuromodulation to elicit a cognitive effect using transdermal electrical stimulation.

The brain is composed of neurons and other cell types in connected networks that process sensory input generate motor commands and control other behavioral and cognitive functions. Neurons communicate primarily through electrochemical pulses that transmit signals between connected cells within and between brain areas. Stimulation technologies that affect electric fields and electrochemical signaling in neurons can modulate the pattern of neural activity and cause altered behavior cognitive states perception and motor output.

Electrical stimulation applied to the head and neck area such as transcranial electric stimulation TES through scalp electrodes has been used to affect brain function in the form of transcranial alternating current stimulation tACS transcranial direct current stimulation tDCS and transcranial random noise stimulation tRNS . Relative to tDCS tACS and tRNS offer the advantage of reductions in pain tingling and other side effects on the scalp. Another strategy to reduce side effects is to use a high density tDCS HD tDCS system with smaller electrode pads such as ones sold by Soterix Medical. tACS also has the advantage of being inherently temporal in nature and thus capable of affecting inducing or destructively interfering with endogenous brain rhythms.

TES is advantageous for modulating brain activity and cognitive function in man. TES has been shown to improve motor control and motor learning improve memory consolidation during slow wave sleep regulate decision making and risk assessment affect sensory perception and cause movements. Systems and methods for TES have been disclosed see for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 646 744 to Capel U.S. Pat. No. 5 540 736 to Haimovich et al. U.S. Pat. No. 8 190 248 to Besio et al. U.S. Pat. No. 8 239 030 to Hagedorn and Thompson U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2011 0144716 to Bikson et al. and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2009 0177243 to Lebedev et al. . Many such TES systems described in the prior art require surgical implantation of components for electrical stimulation on the head of a user see for example U.S. Pat. No. 8 121 695 to Gilner and U.S. Pat. No. 8 150 537 to Tanaka and Nakanishi . Although tDCS systems with numerous electrodes and a high level of configurability have been disclosed see for example U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2012 0209346 2012 0265261 and 2012 0245653 to Bikson et al. as have portable TES systems for auto stimulation U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2011 0288610 to Brocke such prior art TES systems are complicated and would be difficult for an end user e.g. a patient or subject wearing the device to apply and operate.

The simplest form of TES is tDCS. Several open source tDCS projects have released designs for inexpensive TES systems including the Thinking Cap from Grindhouse Wetware and the Go Flow. In such examples the electronic circuitry requires a voltage supply generally 9 V or 12 V a current regulator to supply constant current as the impedance between an electrode and a subject s head changes slightly e.g. due to movement sweating etc. and some circuitry to ensure that spikes of current do not pass into the subject. Additional components can be added to select the current delivered limit the time of stimulation and provide visual or other indicators of stimulation.

tACS requires additional hardware to deliver alternating currents to the electrodes at an appropriate frequency. An oscillator microcontroller or timing circuit can be used to deliver a desired time varying stimulation. In some designs a digital to analog converter is used.

tRNS additionally requires a microcontroller or other processor configured to provide random values with appropriate structure that are then converted to an analog signal and used to gate current at a the desired intensity e.g. at a desired amplitude frequency and or duration through appropriate circuitry.

For each form of TES one or more pairs of electrodes coupled to a subject s head or body are used to deliver the desired energy to the subject s brain or nervous system. A battery or AC power supply is used to supply power. For example hardware and software systems for TES typically include a battery or power supply safely isolated from mains power by magnetic optic or other techniques control hardware and or software for triggering a TES event and controlling the waveform duration intensity and other parameters of stimulation of each electrode and one or more pairs of electrodes with gel saline or another material for electrical coupling to the scalp. Such prior art apparatuses are typically cumbersome and can be heavy and difficult to operate and apply.

Historically stimulation electrodes used in TES have been relatively large on the order of about more than 2 cm by 2 cm. The motivation for large electrode pads has been to reduce the tingling itchy or painful sensation created at the edge of the electrodes from the generated electric field. For instance Feurra and colleagues used a 3 cm 4 cm electrode and a 5 cm 7 cm electrode for stimulating somatosensory cortex Feurra et al. 2011a . Bikson and coinventors have proposed a high density electrode system with multiple smaller electrodes arranged in groups and improved coupling of the electrical fields to the scalp in order to reduce discomfort U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 937 950 titled Apparatus and Method for Neurocranial Electrostimulation by inventors Marom Bikson Abhishek Datta Fortunato Battaglia Maged Elwassif .

Similarly Schutter Schutter and Hortensius 2011 used conductive rubber electrodes placed in wet sponges saturated with Parker Spectra electrode gel Parker Laboratories Fairfield USA . Other skin surface mounted electrodes known to be employed in TES include adhesive stimulation electrodes that maintain positioning by adhering to the scalp. In other embodiments a band helmet or other head mounted assembly maintains the positioning of the stimulation electrodes. In general these prior art systems all include electrodes that may be attached to the subject and are connected typically by a wire or other connector to a base unit that is remotely located from the electrodes and the subject s head. These base units may include the stimulator controller for applying the waveforms.

Various commercial and custom systems for triggering a specified stimulus waveform using one or more pairs of TES electrodes have been described and are well known to one skilled in the art of brain recording or TES e.g. DS2 or DS3 Isolated Stimulator Digitimer Ltd. Welwyn Garden City Hertfordshire U.K. . Such systems are not typically portable or wearable at least in part because of subject safety concerns in order to provide sufficient power current voltage to a subject to produce an effect many systems require bulky and durable signal conditioning and electrical isolation and therefore physically isolate these control units from the subject and particularly the subject s head .

Described herein are apparatuses devices systems etc. that may provide effective stimulation e.g. TES to produce a cognitive effect in a subject yet be intuitive and easy to apply and operate and may be lightweight durable and self contained so that the entire apparatus electrodes and stimulator can be applied and worn on the subject s patient s head. Some or all of the control functions for the apparatus may be remotely controlled e.g. using non transient control logic executable on a remote processing device e.g. smartphone pad computer etc. . The apparatuses and methods of making and using them described herein may address many of the shortcomings and may dramatically improve upon prior art TES apparatuses and methods.

Also described herein are exemplary brain stimulation techniques that are known in the art can also be combined with and improved upon by TES to create advantageous forms of neuromodulation. For example transcranial ultrasound neuromodulation employs ultrasound for stimulating neural tissue rather than for imaging see for example U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2011 0178441 and International Patent Application No. PCT US2010 055527 Publication No. WO 2011 057028 . Such parallel or additional techniques may include transcranial magnetic stimulation optogenetic stimulation and electrocorticography.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS induces electric fields in the brain by generating a strong generally pulsed magnetic field with a coiled electromagnet at or near the head. The magnetic field is transmitted painlessly and efficiently through the skin and skull to the underlying neural tissue. Deep brain stimulation DBS requires implantation of electrodes targeted to a brain area of interest generally one at some depth from the brain surface. A long thin electrode assembly generally with several conductive leads near the tip delivers electrical stimulation to a tissue of interest. DBS is an effective strategy for treating Parkinson s disease in subjects unresponsive to drugs.

Optogenetic stimulation uses light of a specified wavelength to activate an engineered protein expressed in neurons or other cell types that modifies the electrical and or biochemical activity of a targeted cell. For deep brain applications light is generally introduced via an implanted optical fiber.

Electrocorticography ECoG arrays are electrodes implanted on the surface of the brain or dura. ECoG arrays can be used to record electrical potentials and or stimulate underlying cortical tissue for instance to map the focal point of a seizure.

In general described herein are lightweight and wearable transdermal electrical stimulation apparatuses for inducing a cognitive effect in a subject. In particular described herein are lightweight and wearable transdermal electrical stimulation apparatuses that are self contained. The apparatus may include all of the elements necessary and sufficient to drive stimulation and achieve a predetermined cognitive effect. The apparatus may be untethered from any component that is not worn or wearable with the rest of the apparatus for example the entire apparatus may be attached and worn on the head and or neck of the subject. Although the apparatus may be self contained it may be configured to receive instructions from one or more remote systems and may transmit signals to the same or a different remote system including instructions that select or modify stimulation parameters.

For example described herein are lightweight and wearable transdermal electrical stimulation apparatuses for inducing a cognitive effect in a subject that include a durable portion that couples with a disposable or replaceable portion e.g. an electrode potion or electrode apparatus to form the lightweight and wearable transdermal electrical stimulation apparatus. The durable or reusable portion may include a processor and or controller power source and one or more connectors for connecting to two or more electrodes in the disposable portion to drive stimulation between the electrodes to induce a cognitive effect in a subject wearing the apparatus. As used herein a disposable element may refer to a limited use item e.g. single use or limited multiple use including 2 3 uses 2 5 uses 2 7 uses 2 10 uses or less than 5 uses less than 10 uses etc. . A disposable element may be used once or 2 3 times etc. and then removed from the apparatus and replaced with a new element. In particular the electrodes described herein may be disposable elements that include a conductive material e.g. conductive gel conductive adhesive etc. and or adhesive that is only reliably useful a limited number of times before needing to be replaced or refurbished.

The apparatuses described herein include devices and systems which may include multiple connected or connectable elements. These apparatuses may be used or worn by a subject. The subject wearing or using the device may be referred to as a subject or operator. The apparatuses described herein may be configured to provide one or more cognitive effects. In general a cognitive effect may include any induced cognitive effect that is perceived subjectively by the recipient as a sensory perception movement concept instruction other symbolic communication or modifies the recipient s cognitive emotional physiological attentional or other cognitive state. For example an effect of electrical stimulation is one or more of inhibition excitation or modulation of neuronal activity. Specific examples of cognitive effects may include relaxation enhanced attention mood elevation increased energy e.g. physiological arousal increased subjective feelings of energy or the like. Cognitive effects may be stereotypical across a population though with individual variation and degree and may be demonstrated by any appropriate means including by subject reporting objective testing imaging physiological recording etc. Particular cognitive effects evoked may depend upon the position of the electrodes of the apparatus with respect to the subject and or the stimulation parameters described herein. The apparatuses described herein may be optimized to achieve a specific cognitive effect.

A cognitive effect of neuromodulation may cause a change in a user s level of energy fatigue sleepiness alertness wakefulness anxiety stress sensory experience motor performance formation of ideas and thoughts sexual arousal creativity relaxation empathy and or connectedness that is detectable by an objective measurement e.g. behavioral assay and or subjective report by the user.

For example a cognitive effect of neuromodulation may cause a change in an emotional state of the user where the change is detectable by an objective measurement e.g. behavioral assay and or subjective report by the user and an emotion affected is selected from the list including but not limited to affection anger angst anguish annoyance anxiety apathy arousal awe boredom confidence contempt contentment courage curiosity depression desire despair disappointment disgust distrust dread ecstasy embarrassment envy euphoria excitement fear frustration gratitude grief guilt happiness hatred hope horror hostility hurt hysteria indifference interest jealousy joy loathing loneliness love lust outrage panic passion pity pleasure pride rage regret relief remorse sadness satisfaction self confidence shame shock shyness sorrow suffering surprise terror trust wonder worry zeal and zest.

In some variations the cognitive effects evoked by the apparatuses described herein may be positive cognitive effects positive cognitive effects refers to cognitive effects resulting in an increase in alertness an increase in relaxation a decrease in fatigue and a decrease in anxiety an enhancement in motor performance an increase in recall and an increase in empathy.

A cognitive effect of neuromodulation may cause a change in brain activity measured by one or a plurality of electroencephalography EEG magnetoencephalography MEG functional magnetic resonance imaging fMRI functional near infrared spectroscopy fNIRS positron emission tomography PET single photon emission computed tomography SPECT computed tomography CT functional tissue pulsatility imaging fTPI xenon 133 imaging or other techniques for measuring brain activity known to one skilled in the art.

A cognitive effect of neuromodulation may be detectable by a physiological measurement of a subject including but not limited to measurements of the following brain activity body temperature electromyogram EMG galvanic skin response GSR heart rate blood pressure respiration rate pulse oximetry pupil dilation eye movement and gaze direction.

A cognitive effect of neuromodulation may be detectable by a cognitive assessment that takes the form of one or more of a test of motor control a test of cognitive state a test of cognitive ability a sensory processing task an event related potential assessment a reaction time task a motor coordination task a language assessment a test of attention a test of emotional state a behavioral assessment an assessment of emotional state an assessment of obsessive compulsive behavior a test of social behavior an assessment of risk taking behavior an assessment of addictive behavior a standardized cognitive task an assessment of cognitive flexibility such as the Stroop task a working memory task such as the n back task tests that measure learning rate or a customized cognitive task.

In particular the lightweight and wearable apparatuses described herein may include a pair of electrodes arranged so that one electrode is coupled closely and or directly to a controller processor controlling stimulation and a second electrode that is tethered to the first electrode and or the controller processor by a connecting region e.g. a cable cord wire ribbon flex circuit etc. to permit independent positioning of the first and second electrodes on the subject s head and or neck. The connecting region between the first and second electrodes is typically configured to pass current to the electrode for stimulation and may be of an appropriate length e.g. less than about 18 inches less than about 17 inches less than about 16 inches less than about 15 inches less than about 14 inches less than about 13 inches less than about 12 inches less than about 11 inches less than about 10 inches less than about 9 inches less than about 8 inches less than about 7 inches less than about 6 inches between about 3 4 inches between about 3 6 inches between about 3 10 inches between about 3 12 inches etc. . The electrodes may be skin contact electrodes and may be configured to include an adhesive which may be an electrically conductive adhesive to hold the electrodes and or apparatus to the subject s head neck.

For example disclosed herein are lightweight and wearable transdermal electrical stimulation TES systems for inducing a cognitive effect in a subject that include a durable primary unit e.g. electrical stimulator and a removable replaceable e.g. disposable electrode portion e.g. electrode assembly . The system may include a disposable electrode portion the disposable electrode portion including a first electrode on a first base region a second electrode on a second base region a connecting region extending between the first and second electrodes wherein the connecting region is between 3 and 12 inches long and a first connector on the first base region wherein the connector is in electrical communication with the first electrode and a durable low profile primary unit having a maximum thickness of 30 mm the primary unit including a housing having a first outer surface that is curved inward a power supply within the housing a controller within the housing the controller including a current source configured to provide a current at a frequency of greater than 640 Hz to the receiver and a receiver at the first outer surface the receiver configured to electrically connect the first connector to the controller wherein the first base region of the electrode portion is configured to connect to the first outer surface of the primary unit so that the first connector connects to the receiver and wherein when the first electrode is attached to a first position on the subject s head and the second electrode is attached to a second position on the subject s head or neck the controller is configured to apply stimulation at greater than 640 Hz between the first and second electrodes to induce a cognitive effect in the subject.

The base regions e.g. the first and second base regions may also be referred to as substrates and may be any material in particular thin e.g. less than 2 mm less than 1 mm less than 0.5 mm between 0.5 and 0.01 mm etc. and flexible materials. For example the material may be a plastic polymeric material. In some variations the material is a flex circuit material. The connecting region between the first and second base regions may be part of the same sheet of material or it may be a separate material that is connected to the first and second base regions. In some variations the first and second base regions and the connecting region comprises a flex circuit material. In some variations the connecting region comprises a cable. In some variations just the connecting region comprises a flex circuit.

In general the first and second electrodes may both be connected to the durable primary unit through a single connector the first connector or through two separate connectors. In particular the first and second electrodes may be connected to the primary unit electrical stimulator through a first set of snap connectors that extend from the first base region of the electrode assembly. For example the electrode portion may include a second connector on the first base region that is in electrical connection with the second electrode. The second connector like the first connector may be just an electrical connector and or it may be a mechanical connector. The second connector like the first connector may be a snap connector extending proud from a back side of the first base region. For example the first connector on the first base region may comprises a snap connector extending proud of the first base region.

Any of the electrode portions electrode assemblies may be configured to adhesively secure the electrodes to different regions of the patient s body. In particular these electrodes may include an adhesive including a conductive adhesive e.g. conductive gel adhesive to secure the electrode to the subject s head and or neck. In some variations the primary unit is attached to the subject wearing the device through the electrode portion and in particular through attachment of the first electrode the first base region to the subject. Thus the first and second electrodes may be configured to adhesively attach to the subject and the primary unit may attach to the back of the first base region. The primary unit may be attached by the first connector and or it may be adhesively or otherwise mechanically attached to the electrode portion. For example the first base may be configured to adhesively attach to the first outer surface of the primary unit.

In general as mentioned above the apparatus is wearable which may mean that is small and lightweight. For example in some variations the maximum diameter of the housing is less than about 10 cm e.g. less than about 9 cm 8 cm 7 cm 6 cm 5 cm 4 cm 3 cm etc. between about 10 cm and about 2 cm etc. 

For example described herein are lightweight and wearable transdermal electrical stimulation TES system for inducing a cognitive effect in a subject the system comprising a disposable electrode portion the disposable electrode portion including a first electrode on a front side of a first base region a second electrode on a front side of a second base region a connecting region extending between the first and second electrodes wherein the connecting region is between 3 and 12 inches long and a first connector comprising a snap connector extending proud from a back side of the first base region wherein the first connector is in electrical communication with the first electrode and a second connector on the first base region that is in electrical connection with the second electrode and a durable low profile primary unit having a maximum thickness of 30 mm the primary unit including a housing having a first outer surface that is curved inward to conform to the subject s head a first receiver at the first outer surface the first receiver configured to electrically and mechanically connect to the first connector a second receiver at the first outer surface the first receiver configured to electrically and mechanically connect to the second connector and a controller within the housing the controller including a current source configured to provide a current at a frequency of greater than 640 Hz between the first and second receivers wherein the first base region is configured to releasably connect to the first outer surface so that the first connector connects to the first receiver and the second connector connects to the second receiver wherein the primary unit will be worn on a first position on the subject s head when the first electrode is attached to the subject s head at the first position and wherein the second electrode is configured to attach to a second position on the subject s head or neck.

A lightweight and wearable transdermal electrical stimulation TES system for inducing a cognitive effect in a subject may include a disposable electrode portion the disposable electrode portion including a first electrode on a front side of a first base region an adhesive configured to secure the first electrode to a subject s head a second electrode on a front side of a second base region an adhesive configured to secure the second electrode to a subject s head or neck a flexible connecting base region extending between 3 and 12 inches between the first and second electrodes further wherein the first base region second base region and connecting base region all comprise regions of a substrate and a first connector comprising a snap connector extending proud from a back side of the first base region wherein the first connector is in electrical communication with the first electrode and a second connector comprising a snap connector extending proud from the back side of the first base region wherein the second connector is in electrical connection with the second electrode through an electrical connection on the connecting base region and a durable low profile primary unit having a maximum thickness of 30 mm and a weigh of less than 5 ounces the primary unit including a housing having a first outer surface that is curved inward to conform to the subject s head a first receiver at the first outer surface the first receiver configured to electrically and mechanically connect to the first connector a second receiver at the first outer surface the first receiver configured to electrically and mechanically connect to the second connector a power supply within the housing and a controller within the housing the controller including a current source configured to provide a current at a frequency of greater than 640 Hz between the first and second receivers wherein the first base region is configured to releasably connect to the first outer surface so that the first connector connects to the first receiver and the second connector connects to the second receiver wherein the primary unit will be worn on a first position on the subject s head when the first electrode is attached to the subject s head at the first position and wherein the second electrode is configured to attach to a second position on the subject s head or neck.

Thus in general described herein are wearable neuromodulation devices configured to be worn on a subject s head or on the subject s head and neck. Also described herein are electrode portions for use with the wearable neuromodulation devices. These electrode portions may also be referred to as electrode apparatuses or as cantilevered electrodes. A cantilevered electrode cantilevered electrode apparatus may be considered a particular subset of the electrode portions described herein.

The electrode portions e.g. cantilevered electrodes described herein may be configured to mate with the wearable neuromodulation devices to form a neuromodulation system as just discussed. The neuromodulation systems described herein may also be referred to as primary units neurostimulation systems neurostimluator systems neuromodulator systems applicator systems neuromodulation applicator systems or the like.

The wearable neuromodulation devices described herein are small lightweight and specifically adapted to be conforming to the subject so that they can be worn while the subject goes about their daily activities. In particular these devices are adapted to be worn on the subject s head e.g. at the temple region comfortably even while wearing headgear such as hats glasses hoods scarves or the like. These devices typically have a first surface subject facing surface that has a curved and twisted shape so that an electrode on the surface conforms to a subject s temple region. The thickness of the device measured from the first surface is typically thinner at one end and thicker at the other end. The thinner end may be configured to be oriented relative to the subject s eye with the thicker region worn higher on the subject s head. The neuromodulation devices described herein are also configured to include attachments to the cantilevered electrodes on the underside e.g. the first surface providing electrical connection to at least two electrodes on the cantilevered electrode assembly. In these neuromodulation devices may also be referred to as neurostimulation devices neurostimulators neuromodulators applicators neuromodulation applicators electrical stimulators or the like.

A cantilevered electrodes may also be referred to as electrode pads electrode systems or electrode apparatuses may be durable or disposable and are generally configured to connect to the neuromodulation device and apply energy e.g. current from the neuromodulation device to the subject s skin to modulate a subject s mental state e.g. mood .

For example described herein are electrode apparatuses for use with an electrical stimulator to be worn on a subject s head. In general these electrode apparatuses include two electrical connections on one end which may be mechanical connectors such as snap connectors or the like for connecting to the electrical stimulator. The position of these electrical connectors may be between about 0.6 and 0.9 inches from center to center. This distance has been found to be sufficient to both allow electrical isolation when connecting to different active regions of the electrode apparatus while also providing sufficient mechanical support and or tolerance to the cantilevered electrode when it is connected to the electrical stimulator and then worn by a subject.

The cantilevered electrode apparatuses described herein are generally elongated thin bodies that include a first active region for applying electrical energy to a subject s skin at or near one end and a second active region for applying electrical energy to another region of a subject s skin at or near a second end. The electrical connectors to connect to the electrical stimulator are typically both at or near one end of the elongate body. The first and second active regions on the body may be connected by an elongated portion that is typically greater than 2 inches long. In some variations the elongate body is stiff or relatively rigid though it may be ductile or include a ductile region that can be bent to set a shape . In some variations the elongate body has a limited flexibility e.g. so that it is flexible in a first axis e.g. an x axis but is not flexible in a second axis e.g. y axis and may be rotated. For example the elongate body of the electrode apparatus may be formed of a sheet of material such as a flex circuit material.

For example an electrode apparatus may include a first electrode portion having a front side and a back side a first active region on the front side that is configured to deliver energy to the subject s skin a first connector extending proud from the back side wherein the first connector is in electrical communication with the first active region a second connector extending proud from the back side wherein the first and second connector are separated by between about 0.7 and about 0.8 inches from center to center a second electrode portion separated from the first electrode portion by an elongate body region extending at least two inches between the first electrode portion and the second electrode portion and a second active region on a front side of second electrode portion that is in electrical communication with the second connector and is configured to deliver energy to the subject s skin.

As mentioned the first and second conductors are typically configured to electrically connect the apparatus to the electrical stimulator. For example the first and second connectors may be snap connectors. The connectors may provide mechanical as well as electrical connection to the electrical stimulator. The connectors may hold or assist in holding the cantilevered electrode apparatus to the electrical applicator. Alternatively or additionally the electrode apparatus may include a mechanical fastener configured to secure the electrode apparatus to the electrical stimulator. In some variations the connectors are sufficient to secure the electrode apparatus to the electrical stimulator. In some variations an adhesive may be used between the electrode apparatus and the electrical applicator e.g. neurostimulator to secure the cantilevered electrode apparatus to the electrical applicator. For example the apparatus may include an adhesive on the back side of the first flat electrode portion configured to hold the electrode apparatus to the electrical stimulator. In general the first and second connectors are configured to electrically connect the electrode apparatus to the electrical stimulator.

As mentioned above the elongate body region between the first and second electrode portions and the first and second active regions may be flexible in a first direction but not flexible in a direction normal to the first direction. For example the elongate body region may be formed of a strip of material such as a flex circuit material. Examples of flex circuit materials are well known including for example polymers such as polyester PET polyimide PI polyethylene napthalate PEN Polyetherimide PEI various fluropolymers FEP and copolymers.

In general the electrode apparatus may be substantially flat. For example the thickness of the electrode apparatus may have an overall thickness e.g. thickens of the substrate that is less than 5 mm less than 3 mm less than 1 mm less than 0.9 mm less than 0.8 mm less than 0.7 mm less than 0.6 mm etc. and extend in a plane that may be bent or curved . The connectors may extend proud of this thickness. In addition the electrode portions may extend above below this overall thickness.

In any of the variations described herein the electrode apparatus may include an electrically conductive gel over the first active region and or the second active region. The conductive gel may be adhesive and or it may be surrounded by an additional adhesive for securing the active region to the patient s skin. For example the electrode apparatus may include an adhesive on the front side of the first electrode portion and or on the front side of the second electrode portion.

In some variations the electrode apparatus include a foam region. For example the apparatus may include a foam on the first electrode portion. The foam may help comfortably seat the first active region against the subject s skin and may also provide spacing between the apparatus and the subject s skin.

Both the first and second connectors are typically adjacent to each other on the back side of the first electrode portion though separated by a distance sufficient to allow tolerance and support as mentioned above. In some variations the first connector is behind the first active region and the second connector is not behind the first active region.

The first active region of the first electrode portion may be positioned off center on the first electrode portion.

The apparatus may generally include a thin e.g. flat and flexible elongate body having a front side and a back side wherein the first electrode portion is at a first end region of the flexible elongate body and wherein the second flat electrode portion is at a second end region of the flexible elongate body and the elongate body region extends between the first and second active regions. The elongate body may be greater than two inches long e.g. greater than 3 inches long greater than 4 inches long etc. . In some variations the elongate body is curved or bent when not flexed . For example the elongate body may extend have a bend in it.

In some variations the elongate body region may include an electrical trace printed on a flexible elongate substrate. The electrical trace may provide the electrical connection between the second connector and the second active region of the second electrode portion.

An electrode apparatus for use with an electrical stimulator to be worn on a subject s head may include a flat and flexible elongate body having a front side and a back side a first electrode portion at a first end of the elongate body a first active region on the front side of the first electrode portion wherein the first active region is configured to deliver energy to the subject s skin a first connector extending proud from behind the back side of the first electrode portion wherein the first connector is in electrical communication with the first active region a second connector extending proud from the back side of the first electrode portion a second electrode portion at a second end of the elongate body that is separated from the first electrode portion by at least two inches and a second active region on the front side of second electrode portion that is in electrical communication with the second connector and is configured to deliver energy to the subject s skin wherein the first and second connectors are configured to electrically connect the apparatus to the electrical stimulator.

As mentioned the first and second connectors are configured to electrically connect the apparatus to the electrical stimulator and may be for example snap connectors.

As mentioned above the electrode apparatus may include an electrically conductive gel e.g. over the first active region and or the second active region an adhesive on the front side of the first electrode portion and on the front side of the second electrode portion a foam on the first flat electrode portion or the like. In any of the electrode apparatuses described herein the first and second connectors may be separated by between about 0.6 to about 0.9 inches e.g. about 0.7 and about 0.8 inches about 0.72 inches etc. .

A flexibly connected electrode apparatus for use with an electrical stimulator to be worn on a subject s head may include a flat and flexible elongate body having a front side and a back side a first electrode portion at a first end of the elongate body a first active region on the front side of the first electrode portion wherein the first active region is configured to deliver energy to the subject s skin a first connector extending proud from behind the back side of the first active region wherein the first connector is in electrical communication with the first active region a second connector extending proud from behind the back side of the first active region wherein the first and second connectors are separated by between about 0.7 and about 0.8 inches a second electrode portion at a second end of the elongate body and a second active region on the front side of second electrode portion that is in electrical communication with the second connector and is configured to deliver energy to the subject s skin wherein the first and second snap connectors are configured to electrically connect the apparatus to the electrical stimulator.

Also described herein are methods of applying the electrode apparatuses to a subject and methods of applying electrical stimulation to a subject using any of these electrode apparatuses. For example a method of applying electrical stimulation to a subject s head or head and neck using a flat elongate electrode apparatus coupled to a wearable electrical stimulator may include connecting a first and second electrical connector of the electrode apparatus to the wearable electrical stimulator by inserting the first electrical connector into a first receptacle on an underside of the wearable electrical simulator and a second electrical connector of the electrode apparatus into a second receptacle on the underside of the wearable electrical stimulator wherein the first and second electrical connectors extend proud of a back side of a first active region of the electrode apparatus adhesively securing the electrode apparatus coupled to the electrical stimulator to the subject s head so that the first active region on a front side of the electrode apparatus is in electrical contact with the subject s head and adhesively securing a second active region on the front side of the electrode apparatus at a second location on the subject s head or neck wherein the second active region is connected to the first active region through a flat and flexible elongate body so that the second active region is electrically connected to the second electrical connector. The method may also include adhesively securing the back side of the first active region to the underside of the wearable electrical stimulator.

The method may also include applying energy from the wearable electrical stimulator between the first and second active regions. For example the method may include applying current from the wearable electrical simulator having a peak current of about 3 mA peak a frequency above 640 Hz and a duty cycle of greater than about 10 .

Adhesively securing the electrode apparatus coupled to the electrical stimulator may comprise securing the first active region and the wearable electrical stimulator to the subject s temple. For example with the active region lateral and or slightly above the subject s eye. In some variations adhesively securing the second active region comprises securing the second active region to the subject s neck or a region behind the subject s ear e.g. in the mastoid region e.g. on or near the mastoid . Connecting the first and second electrical connectors may comprises connecting the first and second electrical connectors wherein the first electrical connector is between about 0.7 and 0.8 inches from the second first electrical connector.

In general adhesively securing a second active region comprises bending the flat and flexible elongate body around the subject s head to position the second active region on the subject s head or neck e.g. on the back of the subject s neck or behind the subject s ear on or near the mastoid region .

A methods of wearing an electrode apparatuses may include connecting a first and second electrical connector of the electrode apparatus to a wearable electrical stimulator by inserting the first electrical connector into a first receptacle on an underside of the wearable electrical simulator and a second electrical connector of the electrode apparatus into a second receptacle on the underside of the wearable electrical stimulator wherein the first and second electrical connectors extend proud of a back side of a first active region of the electrode apparatus adhesively securing the electrode apparatus coupled to the electrical stimulator to the subject s head so that the first active region on a front side of the electrode apparatus is in electrical contact with the subject s head and adhesively securing a second active region on the front side of the electrode apparatus at a second location on the subject s head or neck wherein the second active region is connected to the first active region through a flat and flexible elongate body so that the second active region is electrically connected to the second electrical connector. The method may also include adhesively securing the back side of the first active region to the underside of the wearable electrical stimulator.

For example a lightweight and wearable transdermal electrical stimulation device for inducing a cognitive effect in a subject may include a primary unit and a secondary unit. The primary unit may include a power source a controller and a first transdermal electrode. The secondary unit may be electrically connected to the primary unit by a cable extending from the primary unit and may include a second transdermal electrode. One or both of the primary unit and the secondary unit may be configured to be worn on the subject s head or neck and the secondary unit may be configured to be independently positioned on the subject relative to the primary unit so that the controller can drive stimulation between the first and second electrodes to induce a cognitive effect in the subject.

In general the primary unit may include or may be a durable component that may be reused with different disposable components. The primary unit may include a controller to control stimulation across the electrodes of the apparatus a lightweight power source e.g. battery capacitive power source etc. and an electrode or connector to an electrode. The controller may be configured to apply one or more pre determined stimulation protocols when driving stimulation between the first and second electrodes to induce a cognitive effect. The secondary unit may correspond to a disposable portion and may include one more e.g. 2 3 4 or all electrodes and or the connector cable cord wire ribbon etc. between the second electrode and the primary unit. The primary and secondary units may be referred to as master and slave components units. The primary and second units may be configured to couple together before being applied to the subject. For example the secondary unit may be configured to be detachably coupled to the primary unit before applying the primary and secondary units to the subject.

In general the primary unit may be configured to be adhesively attached to the subject s head or neck.

As mentioned any of the variations described herein may be adapted to be lightweight and wearable. For example the combined weight of a primary unit and secondary unit together may be less than about 8 ounces e.g. less than about 6 ounces less than about 5 ounces less than about 4 ounces less than about 3 ounces less than about 2 ounces less than about 1.5 ounces less than about 1 ounce less than about 0.5 ounces less than about 0.25 ounces etc. . Generally an apparatus having an overall weight of less than about 3 ounces is particular helpful. Further the device may be adapted for wearability by limiting the dimensions height of the device above the surface of the subject s skin. For example the apparatus may have a maximum thickness of the primary unit and or the secondary unit that is less than about 30 mm e.g. less than about 25 mm less than about 20 mm less than about 15 mm less than about 10 mm less than 5 mm etc. . The thickness which may also refer to as height of the device may refer to the maximum amount that the applicator extends from the skin when worn.

The apparatuses described herein may be configured as TES apparatus transcranial electrical stimulator however it should be understood that in some variation the cognitive effect may arise from one or a combination of stimulation effects including stimulation of nerves e.g. cranial nerves and or brain cells. Any appropriate electrical stimulation may be applied by the apparatus to provoke the desired cognitive effect. For example a controller may be configured to cause alternating current direct current or a combination of alternating and direct current between the first and second electrodes.

In general the apparatus may be formed into an assembly in which the secondary unit which includes the second electrode is tethered by a cable making electrical communication with the primary unit and the primary and secondary units are engaged with each other to form the apparatus before being applied to the subject the secondary unit may be separated from the primary unit while remaining coupled via the cable to the primary unit and independently applied to the head neck or shoulder of the subject. Both the primary and secondary unit may be positioned on the subject s head and or neck.

The apparatus may include one or more indicators on the primary and or secondary units to indicate function or control of the apparatus. For example the apparatus may include a visual indicator on an outer surface of the primary unit. The apparatus may include an input control on an outer surface of the primary unit.

As mentioned the first and second electrode may be configured to be disposable and replaceably detachably attached to the device. Thus in some variations the primary unit includes a connector to a disposable primary electrode and is also configured to connect to the secondary electrode e.g. through the cable. For example the first electrode may be part of a replaceable cartridge configured to be releasably detachably coupled to the primary unit. The first electrode and the secondary unit may be part of a replaceable cartridge configured to be releasably detachably coupled to the primary unit.

Any of the variations described herein may be configured so that the controller regulates the applied energy e.g. current by adjusting the applied current based on a detected resistance impedance between the electrodes. For example the controller may be configured to adjust current across the first and second electrodes based on a detected impedance.

The primary unit further may comprise a wireless communications module in communication with the controller and configured to provide stimulation instructions to the controller. Thus although the apparatus may operate independently e.g. without a connection either remote or local to a separate processor providing control feedback in some variations the apparatus may include a connection to a remote processor that provides control and or feedback on operation of the device. For example the remote processor may select and or instruct the apparatus what parameters to apply to provide a particular cognitive effect and or to coordinate the application of the stimulation parameters.

As mentioned the apparatus may be configured to apply any appropriate stimulation protocol to provoke the desired cognitive effect. For example a device may be configured to apply pulsed electrical stimulation.

In general the apparatuses described herein may be configured to be positioned on the head and or neck of the subject in positions adapted to invoke a particular cognitive effect when stimulation is applied. For example the second electrode may be configured to be positioned on a neck or head of a subject.

Also described herein are methods of operating such devices including methods of inducing a cognitive effect in a subject. For example a method of inducing a cognitive effect may include attaching a primary unit of a lightweight wearable and self contained transdermal electrical stimulation device to a first location so that a first electrode of the primary unit contacts the subject s skin. The method may further comprise attaching a secondary unit comprising a second electrode to a second location on the subject wherein the secondary unit is electrically connected to the primary unit by a cable. One or both of the first location and second location is on the subject s head or neck. The method may also include driving stimulation between the first and second electrodes to induce a cognitive effect in the subject wherein a controller in the primary unit drives stimulation.

In any of the variations described herein the method may also include separating the primary unit from the secondary unit before driving stimulation between the first and second electrodes. This separation may be performed after connecting any disposable elements to the reusable elements. Separation may involve removing the secondary unit from the primary unit so that the cable extends between the two the cable may be contained within e.g. between the primary and secondary unit and may extended to allow independent positioning of the primary and secondary units on the subject. For example the secondary unit may be separated from the primary unit by unwinding the cable to increase the distance between the two units.

Either or both the primary and secondary units may be adhesively attached directly to the subject. For example attaching the primary unit may comprise adhesively attaching the primary unit to the subject s head or neck at the first location. Attaching the secondary unit may comprise adhesively attaching the secondary unit to the subject. Attaching the secondary unit may comprise attaching the secondary unit to the subject s neck or head. The primary and secondary units may include a biocompatible adhesive the adhesive may extend over the electrodes in the primary and secondary unit or it may be separated from the electrodes. Adhesive over the electrodes may be a conductive adhesive.

In some variations the methods may include selecting which stimulation parameter s to operate the apparatus when driving stimulation. The apparatus may include one or more controls on the device to allow selection of the driving stimulation e.g. selection based on the desired cognitive effect s power levels power on off etc. . In some variations the method includes manually selecting the stimulation parameters e.g. by the user directly . In some variations the method of operation may also or alternatively include wirelessly transmitting stimulation parameters e.g. from a mobile communications device etc. to the controller in the primary unit.

Any appropriate stimulation parameters may be used but effective stimulation parameters may include driving stimulation between the first and second electrodes to induce the cognitive effect in the subject may comprises supplying a maximum current of at least 2 mA during stimulation. Driving stimulation between the first and second electrodes to induce the cognitive effect in the subject may comprise supplying current at a frequency of about 400 Hz 20 kHz e.g. between about 500 Hz 10 kHz or specifically between 650 Hz 10 kHz or greater than 640 Hz .

In some variations of the methods of operating the devices described herein the methods may include attaching a cartridge including the first electrode to the primary unit before attaching the primary unit to the subject s head or neck.

As mentioned above any of the lightweight and wearable apparatuses described herein may be self contained and configured to wirelessly receive controlling instructions from a remote site. For example a lightweight and wearable transdermal electrical stimulation device for inducing a cognitive effect in a subject may include a primary unit and a secondary unit. The primary unit may include a power source a wireless communications module a controller configured to receive instructions from a remotely located processor via the wireless communications module and a first transdermal electrode. The secondary unit may include a second transdermal electrode and is electrically connected to the primary unit by a cable extending from the primary unit. Either or both the primary unit and the secondary unit may be configured to be worn on the subject s head or neck and the secondary unit is configured to be independently positioned at a second location on the subject relative to the primary unit so that the controller can drive stimulation between the first and second electrodes to induce a cognitive effect in the subject.

The secondary unit may be configured to be detachably coupled to the primary unit before driving stimulation between the first and second electrodes and may be configured to be separated from the primary unit before being applied.

As mentioned above any of the apparatuses described herein may be worn on the head and or neck. For example the primary unit may be adhesively attached to the subject s head or neck. In some variations the primary unit is secured to the subject by a strap e.g. headband etc. or other item e.g. wearable support structure instead of or in addition to an adhesive attachment. For example the primary unit may be clipped onto a set of glasses or worn over the subject s ear s etc.

As also mentioned above any of the apparatuses described herein may include an indicator such as a visual indicator on the apparatus e.g. on the primary and or secondary units . For example the apparatus may include a visual indicator on an outer surface of the primary unit such as an LED. The visual indicator may indicate communication status e.g. receiving instructions sending data etc. power status on off stimulation protocol e.g. target cognitive state etc. or the like.

Any of the apparatuses described herein may also include one or more manual inputs and or controls. For example a device may include an input control on an outer surface of the primary unit and or secondary unit. The input may be a button dial switch etc. For example an input may be a button for controlling the power on off state.

Any of the apparatuses described herein may include one or more inputs and or controls to allow selection of the stimulation parameters. In general the stimulation parameters may be selected based on a predetermined menu of parameter values e.g. selecting the stimulation protocol based on the desired cognitive effect and or pre customized stimulation parameters for a particular user or class of users etc. . For example the apparatus may receive controlling stimulation instructions that control one or more of current amplitude current frequency pulse width pulse duration pulse frequency pulse waveform burst duration burst frequency off time burst waveform positive duty cycle negative duty cycle and on off.

Also described herein are non transitory computer readable storage mediums storing a set of instructions capable of being executed by a remote processor and particularly a smartphone or the like that when executed by the smartphone causes the smartphone to allow a subject to select one or more or a set of control parameters for controlling the lightweight wearable apparatuses described herein. The set of instructions may include confirming a communication link with one or more lightweight wearable apparatuses presenting a list and or menu of pre selected control values e.g. for one or more of current amplitude current frequency pulse width pulse duration pulse frequency pulse waveform burst duration burst frequency off time burst waveform positive duty cycle negative duty cycle and on off etc. or for allowing modification of one or more of these control values separately. The set of instructions may also permit transmission of the control values to the apparatus or an index to select from a list of possible predetermined profiles of such control values in the apparatus. The set of instructions may also allow the subject to turn the device on off.

The set of instructions may also include instructions and or guidance for applying the device e.g. both primary and secondary units to the proper positions on the body. For example the set of instructions executable on the remote processor may include displaying one or more diagrams indicating where on the subject to position the first and second electrodes of the primary and secondary device components.

The lightweight wearable apparatus may be configured for wirelessly communication with the remote processor by any appropriate wireless technique including but not limited to electromagnetic e.g. RF UWB etc. ultrasound or the like. For example the wireless communications module of the lightweight wearable apparatus may comprise a Bluetooth transmitter.

A lightweight wearable and self contained transdermal electrical stimulation device for inducing a cognitive effect in a subject may also or alternatively include a primary unit having a housing and a secondary unit electrically connected to the primary unit by a cable extending from the housing. The housing of the primary unit may at least partially enclose a power source a wireless communications module a current generator connected to the power source a controller configured to receive stimulation instructions from a remotely located processor via the wireless communications module and a replaceable cartridge including a first transdermal electrode. The secondary unit may include a second transdermal electrode. Either or both the primary unit and the secondary unit may be configured to be worn on the subject s head or neck and the secondary unit may be configured to be independently attached to a second location on the subject independently of the primary unit though tethered to the primary unit so that the controller controls the current generator to drive stimulation between the first and second electrodes based on stimulation instructions received from the remotely located processor to induce a cognitive effect in the subject.

A method of inducing a cognitive effect in a subject may include wireless communication control instructions to the apparatus from a remote processor. For example a method of inducing a cognitive effect may include attaching a primary unit of a lightweight and wearable transdermal electrical stimulation device to a first location on the subject so that a first electrode of the primary unit contacts the subject s skin. The method may further comprise attaching a secondary unit comprising a second electrode to a second location on the subject wherein the secondary unit is electrically connected to the primary unit by a cable. Either or both the first location and the second location may be on the subject s head or neck. The method may include wirelessly receiving stimulation information in the primary unit and driving stimulation between the first and second electrodes to induce a cognitive effect in the subject.

As mentioned wirelessly receiving may include wirelessly receiving stimulation parameters from a remote processor wherein the stimulation parameters include at least one of current amplitude current frequency pulse width pulse duration pulse frequency pulse waveform burst duration burst frequency off time and burst waveform positive duty cycle negative duty cycle and on off. In some variations the remote processor transmits an index value that corresponds to a choice from a menu of preset stimulation parameters in the apparatus. Transmitted control instructions may include both an index value and one or more modification of the stimulation parameters such as current amplitude current frequency pulse width pulse duration pulse frequency pulse waveform burst duration burst frequency off time and burst waveform positive duty cycle negative duty cycle and on off.

A method of inducing a cognitive effect in a subject may comprise adhesively securing a primary unit of a lightweight and wearable transdermal electrical stimulation device to a first location on the subject s head or neck so that a first electrode of the primary unit contacts the subject s skin. The method may also include attaching a secondary unit comprising a second electrode to a second location on the subject s head or neck wherein the secondary unit is electrically connected to the primary unit by a cable. Stimulation control information may be wirelessly transmitted to the primary unit from a remote processor. The method may include applying the stimulation control information to drive stimulation between the first and second electrodes to induce a cognitive effect in the subject.

As mentioned any of the apparatuses described herein may be configured so that they include a durable reusable portion and a disposable e.g. limited use single use non durable etc. component. In general the electrodes and or cable connecting the second electrode to the primary unit may be disposable while the processor controller is durable. The non durable or disposable components may be formed as a cartridge that couples to the durable components. The disposable components may also be referred to as removable and or replaceable components as they may be swapped out between uses.

For example a lightweight and wearable transdermal electrical stimulation apparatus for inducing a cognitive effect in a subject is provided. The apparatus comprises a primary unit configured to be worn on the subject including on the subject s head and or neck and including a power source a controller and an electrode connector. The apparatus further comprises a disposable first electrode configured to detachably connect to the primary unit via the electrode connector. The apparatus comprises a disposable second electrode configured to detachably electrically connect to the controller via a cable extending from either the primary unit or the first electrode. Either the primary or secondary units or both the primary and secondary units are positioned on the subject s head and or neck. The second electrode is configured to be independently positioned at a second location on the subject relative to the first electrode of the primary unit although flexibly tethered to the primary unit by the cable so that the controller can drive stimulation between the first electrode and the second electrode to induce a cognitive effect in the subject.

In another aspect a method of inducing a cognitive effect in a subject is provided. The method comprises coupling a disposable first electrode and disposable second electrode to a reusable primary unit of a lightweight and wearable transdermal electrical stimulation apparatus wherein the disposable first electrode is coupled to the primary unit via an electrode connector on the primary unit so that the first electrode is attached to the primary unit and in electrical communication with a controller in the primary unit and wherein the second electrode is electrically connected to the controller via a cable. The method further comprises attaching the primary unit to a first location e.g. on the subject s head or neck so that the first electrode contacts the subject s skin. The method comprises independently attaching the second electrode to a second location on the subject e.g. on the subject s head or neck so that the second electrode contacts the subject s skin. The method comprises activating the controller to drive stimulation between the first and second electrodes to induce a cognitive effect in the subject.

Lightweight and wearable apparatuses for applying transdermal electrical stimulation and methods of using them for inducing a cognitive effect are described. These apparatuses are typically self contained lightweight and wearable devices and or systems that include a primary unit and at least one secondary unit. The primary unit can include a first transdermal electrode a processor or controller which may include current controller for applying current and in some embodiments a wireless communications module. The system also typically includes a secondary unit that is electrically connected to the primary unit by a cable such as a wire cord ribbon etc. The secondary unit also typically includes a second transdermal electrode. The primary and secondary unit may be initially and conveniently stored together in a single housing e.g. cover and may be separated before applying or when applying to the subject s head and or neck. The entire self contained apparatus may be applied to and worn on the subject s head and or neck and the secondary unit is generally tethered to the primary unit by the cable so that the primary and secondary units can be independently connected to the subject and are connected only to each other by the cable without requiring any additional cable connections. The apparatus can be configured to drive stimulation between the first and second electrode to induce a cognitive effect in the subject for example relaxation or excitement while reducing any discomfort experienced by the subject at the locations where the electrodes are contacting the skin.

All of the components of the electrical stimulation device may be self contained in one or more housings and the entire device can easily be worn by a user. As described above different components of the device can be worn by being adhered to skin of a user. Some or all of the components of the device can also or alternatively be held against the skin by an accessory such as a headband or wrap alternatively or additionally the apparatus may be worn connected to an eyepiece or earpiece e.g. eyeglasses etc. . The simple wearability of the device can advantageously make it more comfortable and convenient to use for a user. It can also enhance the aesthetic effect of the device while being worn and or used by a subject. The device may be particularly and specifically adapted to be wearable and lightweight for example the apparatus may weigh less than a predetermined amount e.g. less than 8 ounces less than 7 ounces less than 6 ounces less than 5 ounces less than 4 ounces less than 3 ounces less than 2 ounces less than about 1.5 ounces less than about 1 ounce less than about 0.5 ounces less than about 0.25 ounces . The primary unit and the secondary unit may also be relatively flat or thin when worn against the head and or neck e.g. may be less than 30 mm thick less than 25 mm thick less than 20 mm thick less than about 10 mm less than 5 mm etc. .

The lightweight and wearable transdermal electrical stimulation apparatus for inducing a cognitive effect in a subject may generally include hardware software and or firmware components that are configured to generate appropriate control sequences for the device transmit signals to a current or voltage source and or conditioner and connect to electrodes that are configured to be placed on a user for generating electrical currents. For example the apparatus may comprise a controller configured to transmit sequences to a current generator. Thus the apparatus may be configured for mobile use.

The apparatus may generally be configured to receive control information for controlling the stimulation. This control may include control of the start duration and timing of stimulation e.g. on off duration etc. and or may also include controls for the waveforms to be applied to induce a cognitive effect in a subject. In general the induced cognitive effect is a function of the position of the electrodes e.g. where on the head neck the electrodes are positioned and the stimulation parameters of the applied waveforms. An apparatus may include one or more manual controls e.g. inputs on the apparatus and or it may include wireless communication to a remote processor base station that wirelessly transmits control information to the apparatus. For example the apparatus may include a wireless module for wireless communication to the base station or via cellular networks to the Internet. A remote processor may be configured to transmit control signals to a current generator located in the device e.g. within the primary unit . The remote processor may include non transitory computer readable storage mediums storing a set of instructions capable of being executed by a remote processor such as a smartphone or the like that when executed by the remote processor causes the processor to allow a subject to select one or more or a set of control parameters for controlling the lightweight wearable apparatuses described herein. The set of instructions may include confirming a communication link with one or more lightweight wearable apparatuses presenting a list and or menu of pre selected control values e.g. for one or more of current amplitude current frequency pulse width pulse duration pulse frequency pulse waveform burst duration burst frequency off time burst waveform positive duty cycle negative duty cycle and on off etc. or for allowing modification of one or more of these control values separately.

In general inducing a cognitive effect can include inducing a response that a reasonable user is cognitively aware of. The effect can include a physiological change. For example the effect can include a change in the amplitude or phase of brain rhythms. The effect can include a modulation of one or a plurality of the following biophysical or biochemical processes i ion channel activity ii ion transporter activity iii secretion of signaling molecules iv proliferation of the cells v differentiation of the cells vi protein transcription of cells vii protein translation of cells viii protein phosphorylation of the cells or ix protein structures in the cells. The apparatus device or system may be configured so that the induced cognitive effect is perceived subjectively by the recipient as a sensory perception movement concept instruction other symbolic communication or modifies the recipient s cognitive emotional physiological attentional or other cognitive state. Neurons and other cells in the brain and head area are electrically active so stimulation using electric fields can be an effective strategy for modulating brain function. In various embodiments of the invention the effect of electrical stimulation is one or more of inhibition excitation or modulation of neuronal activity.

The primary unit and the secondary unit may both include a transdermal electrode for delivery of current to the subject to evoke a cognitive response. In the electrodes are not visible as a removable cover e.g. covering an adhesive layer covers the contact surfaces of both units. The cable may be stored e.g. wound within either the primary or secondary units. In the example of the cable is stored within the secondary unit not visible in .

The primary electrode region region is configured to be positioned against the skin of a user during a stimulation session. The top surface of the electrode region shown in is the surface configured to be positioned on the skin of a user. As described below the primary electrode region can be adhered to the skin or can be held in place by an accessory or other article.

The primary electrode region shown in is a transdermal adhesive electrode. The adhesive can be one of a variety of adhesives for example pressure sensitive adhesives and dissolvable adhesives. The adhesive can be electrically conductive. Some examples of adhesive layers include acrylics e.g. cyanoacrylate silicone polyurethane and bio adhesives. The peel layer can be used to maintain the adhesive properties of the electrode when the device is not being used. Embodiments of adhesives are described in more detail below. In some embodiments the primary electrode does not include an adhesive layer. In these embodiments the primary electrode can be held against the skin of a user using a different technique. For example the subject may wear an item configured to hold the electrode against the skin. In some embodiments the subject wears a wrap or headband configured to hold the primary electrode against the skin. Other accessories and articles are also possible. For example in some embodiments a user uses a hat or glasses to hold the electrode in place. For example a glasses like article can be used to hold an electrode over an ear of a user.

The primary electrode portion may be formed integrally with the primary unit . In some embodiments the primary electrode portion can be configured as a cartridge to be detachably coupled to the primary unit using the connector . In some embodiments the primary and or secondary electrode portion is disposable and can be used for a certain period of time and can then be replaced with another primary electrode portion. The term disposable can refer to the portion being used a number of times e.g. 1 10 10 25 25 50 50 and then being thrown away. In some embodiments the portion is not thrown away but is refurbished to be able to be used again. The term disposable is described in further detail herein.

The primary electrode base is configured to be positioned within the primary unit . The primary electrode base can comprise a bottom surface configured to mate with an inner surface of the primary unit . The connector is a snap connector but other configurations are also possible. For example the connector can comprise a latch screw on or micro snap configuration. The connector can provide both a physical and electrical connection between the primary electrode and the primary unit . In some embodiments the primary electrode portion can include one or more electrical connectors and one or more separate physical connectors.

In the secondary unit has been made partially transparent to illustrate the internal elements including an electrode and cable . The cable is arranged within the layer formed by the secondary unit and may be extended from the secondary unit by pulling the secondary unit away from the primary unit.

As illustrated above in the secondary electrode portion can be configured to be detached from the primary unit and positioned against the skin e.g. on the skin on the hair on the ear etc. of a user. The top surface of the secondary electrode as viewed in is configured to be positioned against the skin of a user. Similar to the primary electrode region the secondary electrode region can be adhered to the skin or can be held in place by an accessory or other article.

The secondary electrode region may include a transdermal adhesive which may be conductive for coupling the electrode to the subject. The adhesive can be one of a variety of adhesives for example pressure sensitive adhesives and dissolvable adhesives. The adhesive can be electrically conductive. Some examples of adhesive layers include acrylics e.g. cyanoacrylate silicone polyurethane and bio adhesives. The peel layer can be used to maintain the adhesive properties of the electrode region when the device is not being used. In some embodiments the secondary electrode region is not adhesive. In these embodiments the primary electrode region can be held against the skin of a user using a different method. For example the subject may wear an item configured to hold the electrode against the skin. In some embodiments the subject wears a wrap or headband configured to hold the primary electrode region against the skin.

The secondary electrode base and cover can provide protection to the secondary electrode. The base can also provide packaging for the secondary electrode portion for example when sold as a separate unit or cartridge. The base and cover can also be configured to hold the cable as described with respect to . In some embodiments the secondary electrode region is connected to the primary electrode portion or primary unit using a connector e.g. similar to connector positioned at the secondary electrode base and or cover. In some embodiments the secondary electrode base or cover includes an adhesive that can be used to attach the secondary electrode portion to the primary electrode portion . In some embodiments the secondary electrode portion can be held in place within the keeper by a cover such as that shown in .

The secondary electrode portion can be configured as a cartridge to be detachably coupled to the primary unit and or the primary electrode portion using a connector adhesive or the like. In some embodiments the secondary electrode portion is disposable and can be used for a certain period of time and can then be replaced with another or the same secondary electrode portion as described with respect to the primary electrode portion above.

In two batteries covered by doors are illustrated. In some embodiments the keeper will not include doors for the batteries . In some embodiments one battery supply is configured to provide power to the electrodes while a second battery supply may be configured to provide power for stimulation delivered to control components and other components of the device e.g. LED indicator or internal clock . In this manner both the advantages of limitations on device usage can be achieved while maintaining convenience of having a reusable portion of the device that requires less maintenance in between uses. Certain embodiments may provide a battery supply integrated into the main housing of the device while a second battery supply for the electrodes could be contained within a disposable portion of the device. In some embodiments the device comprises one battery. In some embodiments the device comprises more than two batteries. For example the device can comprise three batteries.

In some embodiments coin cell batteries can be used. Other types of batteries are also possible. For example in some embodiments button cells can be used. An example of a suitable battery is the Energizer CR1220 lithium coin battery. Other possibilities include the CR 1025 and the CR1216. The CR1025 has enough power to delivery 1 mA for about 30 minutes 0.5 mAh . The CR1216 lithium coin battery is even smaller about 0.5 inch round 20inch high. These and other battery form factors can be advantageous for a disposable limited use or single use system. Advantageously usage of the device can be limited as to not allow a user to overuse or forget to turn off the device.

In some embodiments a chain of batteries in series is used to generate higher voltages required for stimulation. For example six 1.5V batteries in series can be used to create a 9V source. In some embodiments transformer or buck boost strategies are used to generate higher voltages from a low voltage battery source. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous strategies for generating higher voltages from lower voltage sources.

In some embodiments of the invention the battery is charged by one or more solar panels or by harvesting energy from the movements of a user for example by using piezopolymers or piezoelectric fiber composites as disclosed in International Patent Application No. PCT US2010 055527 Publication No. WO 2011 057028 titled DEVICES AND METHODS FOR MODULATING BRAIN ACTIVITY by inventor Tyler .

The device is shown as having a generally rectangular shape with rounded edges. In some embodiments the primary unit can have a different shape. For example the primary unit can have a generally ovular rectangular or circular shape.

The device is shown as having a generally kidney bean shaped profile as seen from the view depicted in . In some embodiments the device has a differently shaped profile. For example the profile can be generally rectangular generally trapezoidal or generally ovular. The profile can have rounded edges or generally sharp edges. In some variations as illustrated the outer subject contacting surface of the primary and secondary units is contoured to better fit the subject s head. For example as illustrated the primary and secondary unit subject contacting surfaces are curved slightly bowed inward to better fit the subject s head or neck. In addition these surfaces may be flexible bendable or otherwise configured to contour to the shape of the subject. Thus in general the primary and secondary units may be sufficiently curved bendable or flexible to conform to the shape of the subject s body where the primary and secondary units are coupled and particularly where the electrode regions contact the subject s skin .

As mentioned above any of the apparatuses described herein may also include one or more wireless communication module which may also be part of the durable assembly. For example a wireless communication module may include an antenna encoder D A processor filters amplifiers etc. The wireless communication module may be duplex half duplex full duplex etc. for both receiving and transmitting information. The durable reusable assembly may also include a memory not shown for storing instructions and or performance information about the apparatus the memory may be coupled to either or both the controller processor and the wireless communication module .

Embodiments of methods of using a lightweight and wearable apparatus for inducing a cognitive effect will now be described. In some embodiments a subject using the device or third party will detach the secondary electrode portion from the primary unit separating the two electrode portions prior to initiating a stimulation session. In some embodiments the primary electrode portion and secondary electrode portion are not positioned within the primary unit . In such embodiments the user or third party can insert the first electrode portion e.g. a replaceable or disposable cartridge into the primary unit e.g. using snap . In some embodiments the user or third party inserts the primary electrode portion and secondary electrode portion e.g. as a replaceable or disposable cartridge into the primary unit and then detaches the secondary electrode portion from the primary unit .

The user or third party can position the primary unit including the primary electrode portion at a first location on a user and position the secondary electrode portion at a second location on a user. In some embodiments one or both of the primary and secondary electrode portions are positioned on the head of a user. In some embodiments one or both of the primary and secondary electrode portions are positioned on the neck of a user. For example the primary electrode portion can be positioned on the forehead of a user and the secondary electrode portion can be positioned on a neck of a user. In some embodiments one or both of the primary and secondary electrode portions is positioned on the periphery of a user e.g. locations other than the head or neck . As described above the electrode portions can be adhered to the skin of a user or worn using an accessory or article.

The secondary electrode portion can be electrically connected to the primary electrode portion by using the cable and connector either before or after positioning the electrode portions on the skin. In some embodiments the two electrode portions may already be connected. Once the two electrode portions are electrically connected the user can drive stimulation between the electrodes . As described above the stimulation can be driven based on predetermined parameters. In some embodiments a user can control the stimulation driven using the input control. In some embodiments the device receives stimulation parameters wirelessly. In some embodiments a user or third party can control the stimulation parameters on a separate device such as a smartphone laptop tablet etc. and can transmit the parameters to the device using a wired or wireless connection.

As described above the device includes a modular secondary electrode portion that can be attached to the primary unit . In some embodiments the device includes more than one secondary electrode portion. Each secondary electrode portion can have its own adherent pad and one or more electrodes as well as a connection means allowing for connection e.g. wired wireless to the primary unit . The multiple electrode portions can be arranged in an array with shapes including round elliptical triangular square rectangular trapezoidal polygonal oblong horseshoe shaped hooked or irregularly shaped. In some embodiments the secondary portion can be attached to the primary portion via a flexible wire as described above. In these embodiments power and control signals can be sent by way of the flexible wire. In other embodiments the secondary units include an independent power source e.g. battery and receive control signals from the primary unit via the connection means either wirelessly e.g. Bluetooth Low Energy or through a wired connection e.g. flexible wiring extending from the primary unit .

In some embodiments an indicator communicates to the user and or a third party that electrical stimulation is underway. In an embodiment of the invention an indicator communicates to the user and or a third party that electrical stimulation will end in a certain amount of time. In an embodiment of the invention an indicator communicates to the user and or a third party that electrical stimulation will begin soon.

In embodiments wherein an indicator communicates to the user the indicator can take the form of an LED or other visual stimulus transducer buzzer or other tactile transducer a speaker or skull coupled transducer for transmitting vibration that can be detected as an auditory stimulus an emitted chemical signal detected as an olfactory or gustatory signal by the user or a signal transmitted via an application used by the subject on a PC laptop tablet smartphone or other mobile computing device.

In some embodiments the recipient of electrical stimulation triggers their own electrical stimulation. In alternative embodiments a third party triggers electrical stimulation.

In embodiments of the invention one or more of the electrodes is a dry electrode. In some embodiments that incorporate one or more dry electrodes the dry electrodes are designed to have finger like projections useful for contacting the skull through hair and composed of a material chosen from the group of fabric foam rubber or another material or materials known to one skilled in the art of creating dry electrodes.

As described above the electrical stimulation device can include disposable components. In some embodiments the entire assembly is disposable. In some embodiments the device is composed of separable non disposable and disposable components. For example the primary unit may be non disposable while the first and second electrode portions can be disposable. In this manner robust and reusable components of the system can be reused saving resources and reducing cost while permitting the replacement of other components such as single use or limited use electrodes which may not reliably adhere to the head after a single use or a battery.

In some embodiments the system is configured to be a single use system that is only used once and then disposed. In other embodiments the system is configured to be disposable after a certain number of uses and is thus referred to as multiple use . In some embodiments the system is configured to be disposed after a number of uses within a range. In alternative embodiments of the invention the system is configured to be disposed after a fixed number of uses chosen from the group of more than once more than twice more than 3 times more than 4 times more than 5 times more than 10 times more than 25 times more than 50 times more than 100 times more than 1000 times or more than 10000 times. In alternative embodiments of the invention the system is configured to be disposed after a fixed period of time of use chosen from the group of more than 10 seconds more than 30 seconds more than 1 minute more than 2 minutes more than 3 minutes more than 4 minutes more than 5 minutes more than 7 minutes more than 10 minutes more than 15 minutes more than 30 minutes more than 45 minutes more than 1 hour more than 2 hours more than 3 hours more than 5 hours more than 10 hours more than 20 hours or longer. In an embodiment of the invention a fixed use fuse burnout circuit limited battery or other electronic or mechanical system is used to cease device operation once the limit in uses or time has been reached. In an embodiment of the invention a machine readable memory is used to count the number of uses or length of time a disposable device or system component has been used then a microcontroller or other electrical component compares the value in memory to a maximum number of uses or length of time to determine whether stimulation is triggered by the system. In some embodiments a radiofrequency identification RFID tag is a component of a disposable component of a stimulation device and configured to make certain that the disposable component is not used more often or for longer than intended. The number of uses and or length of use is transmitted wirelessly to a PC laptop smartphone tablet or other mobile computing device.

In some embodiments in which the stimulation device is configured to be semi disposable reusable components integrated into a main housing can be permanently used for all sessions of stimulation. In some embodiments the reusable components incorporated into the main housing can be designed for re use a number of times chosen from the group of more than once more than twice more than 3 times more than 4 times more than 5 times more than 10 times more than 25 times more than 50 times more than 100 times more than 1000 times or more than 10000 times.

In some embodiments in which the stimulation device is configured to be semi disposable the disposable portion includes one or more electrodes. In some embodiments in which the stimulation device is configured to be semi disposable the disposable portion includes a battery. In some embodiments in which the stimulation device is configured to be semi disposable the disposable portion includes an electrical connector. In some embodiments in which the stimulation device is configured to be semi disposable the disposable portion includes an electrically conductive adhesive. In some embodiments in which the stimulation device is configured to be semi disposable the disposable portion includes a fuse or limiting switch configured to terminate or burn out in the case of a fuse after exceeding a desired time or current level protecting the user from over use or undesirable current surges or fluctuations e.g. permitting use without the need to have predefined range for the stimulation . In some embodiments in which the stimulation device is configured to be semi disposable the disposable portion includes a microcontroller. In some embodiments in which the stimulation device is configured to be semi disposable the disposable portion includes a user interface component. In some embodiments in which the stimulation device is configured to be semi disposable the disposable portion includes packaging a tactile transducer a speaker or an LED. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the various elements of the disposable portions of the stimulation device are not necessarily a single disposable component. For example in some embodiments the disposable portion may be two or more separate components such as a disposable contact pad comprising an adherent and one or more electrodes while a disposable battery may be detachably integrated within a semi disposable or non disposable portion of the device e.g. battery compartment .

In some embodiments a disposable stimulation device or disposable portion of a stimulation device is configured to be returned to the company or a third party for recycling. In an embodiment of the invention a refund is provided for a disposable system returned by a user. One or more new disposable systems may be provided to a user or sent to them as a replacement for a returned or disposed of disposable stimulation device component. In some embodiments return packaging is provided for the user to mail a used system or used component of a system. Users can subscribe to receive disposable stimulation devices or components of stimulation devices and or disposable portions of stimulation devices regularly or when they have used previously received systems. Embodiments incorporating recycling can be advantageous because they may benefit the environment particularly with respect to batteries or other electrical components that may be toxic if disposed of improperly.

In some embodiments the device is configured to be user actuated and or automated. In this manner embodiments of the present invention may be utilized without the need to have a skilled practitioner e.g. medical technician available in order to oversee the placement control and operation of the electrical stimulation.

The above features of embodiments of stimulation devices provided herein differ from existing TES systems and offer key advantages for the widespread portable use of TES systems including 

1 Single use or limited use electrodes that adhere to the skin hair face or head can simplify system design by reducing requirements for robustness of the electrode itself as well as its properties with respect to adherence to the head electrical conductivity and effectiveness of stimulation.

2 Smaller lighter and structurally flexible form factor can enable users to undertake normal daily activities throughout stimulation sessions and make the device more comfortable and convenient to use.

3 Electrical structural and energy storage components can be designed to lower tolerances and need not achieve long term performance permitting significantly reduced product pricing relative to existing TES systems e.g. 5 10 less significantly expanding their use and reducing the barrier to adoption versus traditional devices.

4 By eliminating the requirement for field support for hardware or long term performance requirements customer satisfaction can be improved while also lowering operational costs to maintain working products in the field.

As described above the device components e.g. the first and second electrode portions can include adhesive to make them self adhering e.g. adherent to the skin skull face hair neck or other portions of the head or body. The adhesive can be reversibly self adhering. After a user session the self adhering components for instance adhesive can be manually removed by the user by exerting a small amount of force. In some embodiments the device is designed so that little or no hair is removed during device removal if the adhesive portion of the device was placed over an area with hair. In some embodiments the adhesion is stronger and removal requires more force e.g. similar to band aid removal .

Adhesive used can include hydrogel acrylic conductive adhesive and PIB polyisobutylene synthetic rubber conductive adhesive. A hydrogel used as an adhesive is soft conformable gel material that enables intimate contact and can be ionically conductive. However hydrogels can provide a weak skin bond. Appropriate hydrogels can be manufactured by Corium International and other vendors. An example of an acrylic conductive adhesive are the EC 2 products which have been used for defibrillator pads and EKG sensors for use over minutes to hours. Adhesives Research Inc. is a provider of acrylic conductive adhesive. PIB polyisobutylene synthetic rubber conductive adhesive are designed for direct skin contact and electrical pulse applications with long term exposure days to weeks . PIB adhesives can be tailored to be removable or high bond. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that there are numerous pressure sensitive adhesives and hydrogels that could be used with embodiments of the present invention and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any type of pressure sensitive adhesive and or hydrogel. Particular adhesives can be chosen for their adhesive strength electrical conductivity the amount of residue they leave behind e.g. little or none and force required for removability.

In some embodiments the adhesive includes a suction device or another system that adheres the device to the head. The self adhering property of at least some components of the device can advantageously hold the device components in place at a fixed location on the head or neck for targeting a specific brain region. The self adhering property of at least some components of the device can also advantageously provide a more desirable aesthetic effect than other devices that need to be attached or worn using intrusive articles.

In some embodiments the device is less than about 8 oz. or about 226.8 g. In some embodiments the device is less than about 7 oz. or about 198.4 g. In some embodiments the device is less than about 6 oz. or about 170.1 g. In some embodiments the device is less than about 5 oz. or about 141.7 g. In some embodiments the device is less than about 4 oz. or about 113.4 g. In some embodiments the device is less than about 3 oz. or about 85.0 g. In some embodiments the device is between about 1 oz. and about 2 oz. or between about 28.3 g. and about 56.7 g. For example the device can be about 1.25 oz. or about 35.4 g. In some embodiments the device is less than about 1 oz. or 28.3 g. In some embodiments the device is less than about 0.5 oz. or about 14.2 g. For example the device can be about 0.25 oz. or about 7 g. A sufficiently low weight can aid in allowing the device to be self adhering. In some embodiments the device may not be sufficiently light to be self adhering. A lightweight device may also increase comfort reduce cost and reduce the area of electrical stimulation on the scalp and or in the brain in order to achieve tighter focusing of the induced electric field in the brain.

The electrical stimulation device can be configured for conformability to the head face neck or other body region. In some embodiments the device components are flexible. In some embodiments all components larger than the curvature of the target body area are made of flexible materials. In some embodiments flexible mechanical elements between inflexible components permit conformability to the body.

In some embodiments the device long axis dimension is less than about 30 cm less than about 20 cm less than about 12 cm less than about 10 cm less than about 9 cm less than about 8 cm less than about 7 cm less than about 6 cm less than about 5 cm less than about 4 cm less than about 3 cm less than about 2 cm or less than about 1 cm.

In some embodiments the device has a diameter of less than about 12 cm less than about 10 cm less than about 9 cm less than about 8 cm less than about 7 cm less than about 6 cm less than about 5 cm less than about 4 cm less than about 3 cm less than about 2 cm or less than about 1 cm.

In some embodiments the device has a height or profile of less than about 30 cm less than about 20 cm less than about 30 mm less than about 20 mm less than about 10 mm less than about 9 mm less than about 8 mm less than about 7 mm less than about 6 mm less than about 5 mm less than about 4 mm less than about 3 cm less than about 2 mm or less than about 1 mm. A low profile device may advantageously have better adhesion properties than a larger profile device. For example its center of mass is closer to the adhesive at the user s skin.

In one embodiment the footprint of the device is less than about 5 cm in diameter and less than about 0.625 cm in height and weighs less than about 2 ounces or about 56.7 g . In some embodiments the footprint of the device is less than about 3.75 cm in diameter and less than about 0.3 cm in height and weighs less than about 1 ounce or about 28.3 g .

In alternative embodiments the configuration of the device provides physical stability. For instance a wrap around the ear configuration can provide additional support for a TES assembly by transferring weight to the ear .

In some embodiments the electrical stimulation device does not include user controllable elements for adjusting parameters of stimulation. In such embodiments pre determined stimulation protocols can be chosen for safety and efficacy and be stored in computer readable memory present in the device. The pre determined setting can be triggered by toggling the on off switch. The settings can also be triggered when the system senses a low impedance connection between electrodes occurring for instance when electrodes have been conductively adhered to a user s skin. In some embodiments user controllable elements for adjusting parameters of stimulation can be located remotely from the device for example on a smartphone computer or other mobile computing device. In some embodiments the device does not require user input concerning the time of stimulation intensity of stimulation frequency of stimulation or other stimulation parameter.

In some embodiments a GPS antenna RFID tag Bluetooth transmitter Wi Fi transmitter and or other wireless communication system are used for transmitting to and from the electrical stimulation device. In some embodiments wireless communication is used to trigger electrical stimulation remotely or due to the presence of the device in a particular location. For example a user may wear an electrical stimulation device configured for improved learning that is only triggered when they are in a classroom and a lecture has begun. In another embodiment a device configured to improve motor learning and motor performance is worn by a golfer and activated when the subject is in proximity to their golf club.

As described above transdermal electrical stimulation can include TES. TES can include transcranial direct current stimulation tDCS transcranial alternating current stimulation tACS cranial electrotherapy stimulation CES and transcranial random noise stimulation tRNS . Unlike other forms of energy that can be transmitted transdermally or transcranially such as ultrasound transmission of an electrical field in the brain occurs at the speed of light and is thus instantaneous on biological timescales.

In some embodiments the device incorporates a built in impedance meter. Impedance meters can advantageously provide the user with feedback about the impedance of each electrode or electrode pair to guide the user or other individual as to the effectiveness with which an electrode has been electrically coupled to their head. In various embodiments of the invention feedback about electrode impedance is provided through one or more of a graphical user interface i.e. one presented on the screen of a mobile computing device one or more indicator lights or other user interface or control unit. In an embodiment of the invention feedback to the user about the impedance is designed to inform the user to adjust a stimulation device to couple it more firmly to the body and thus reduce impedance. In an embodiment of the invention feedback to the user about the impedance is designed to inform the user if a short circuit is present i.e. that the impedance is too low so that the user can resolve the short circuit e.g. dry their head if it is raining . In an embodiment of the invention that uses dry electrodes the device is configured to adjust pause or otherwise modulate stimulation due to capacitive interference as is known to occur for dry electrodes during movement such as raising a hand near the head.

Lower impedance between electrodes can indicate conductance via the head scalp face or other body part of the user. In an embodiment the device is engineered to automatically trigger electrical stimulation when the impedance between one or more pairs of electrodes falls below a threshold value. In other embodiments the device is engineered such that impedance is determined upon an event e.g. toggling of an on off switch in order to verify sufficient contact with the skin of a user prior to engaging stimulation. In an embodiment the device is engineered to gate electrical stimulation so that it only occurs when the impedance between one or more pairs of electrodes falls below a threshold value chosen from the group of less than about 250 k less than about 100 k less than about 50 k less than about 25 k less than about 10 k less than about 5 k or less than about 1 k . In an embodiment the device is engineered to gate electrical stimulation so it only occurs when the impedance between one or more pairs of electrodes exceeds a threshold value to confirm that no electrical shorts are present e.g. due to rain or wet hair and the threshold value is chosen from the group of greater than about 1 greater than about 5 greater than about 10 greater than about 50 greater than about 100 or greater than about 500 . In some embodiments the stimulation driven by the controller is influenced by the impedance measured e.g. at least one of current amplitude current frequency pulse width pulse duration pulse frequency pulse waveform burst duration burst frequency off time burst waveform positive duty cycle negative duty cycle and on off .

The device can be configured to deliver alternating current AC direct current DC or a combination of alternating and direct current. In some embodiments in which the device is configured to deliver alternating current alone or in combination with direct current the waveform of the alternating current is chosen from the group of sine square saw tooth triangle and other waveform including composite complex and stochastic waveforms.

In some embodiments the device is configured deliver current at one or more frequencies between about 0.01 Hz and about 20 kHz. In some embodiments the device is configured to deliver current at between about 400 Hz and about 20 kHz. In some embodiments the device is configured to deliver current at between about 650 Hz and about 20 kHz. In some embodiments the device is configured to deliver current at between about 500 Hz and about 10 kHz. In some embodiments the device is configured to deliver current at between about 650 Hz and about 10 kHz. In particular any of the apparatuses and methods of using them described herein may include a peak power that is within a frequency band between any of these ranges e.g. peak power in the range of 650 Hz and about 20 kHz etc. . Thus a primary frequency component for the applied power e.g. current may be within the range for example of about 650 Hz to about 20 kHz e.g. 650 Hz to about 10 kHz etc. . This primary frequency component may be greater than other frequency components of the signal as determined by a frequency domain e.g. Fourier analysis. In some variations the primary frequency component is the first principle frequency component having the greatest power compared to any other frequency component of the applied signal e.g. in some variations by an order of magnitude .

Particularly advantageous frequencies for tACS are at frequencies of brain rhythms that naturally occur between about 0.5 Hz and about 130 Hz. In embodiments of the electrical stimulation device higher frequencies between 1 kHz and 10 kHz are used to modulate neuronal function. In some embodiments of the invention the components of the system that deliver alternating current stimulation are configured to deliver time varying patterns of electrical stimulation with one or more dominant frequencies at a biologically relevant range of between about 0.01 Hz and about 500 Hz.

Skin irritation can be much less for AC or RNS than for DC stimulation permitting higher current intensities without discomfort. In common embodiments of the invention the current delivered through a single pair of electrodes is chosen from the group of less than about 10 mA less than about 5 mA less than about 4 mA less than about 3 mA less than about 2 mA less than about 1 mA less than about 0.5 mA less than about 0.25 mA less than about 0.1 mA. In some embodiments of the invention the sum of currents transmitted by all or a subset of electrodes is limited to a maximum instantaneous level chosen from the group of less than about 10 mA less than about 5 mA less than about 4 mA less than about 3 mA less than about 2 mA less than about 1 mA less than about 0.5 mA less than about 0.25 mA less than about 0.1 mA One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous current levels that could be utilized with embodiments of the present invention and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any appropriate level of current. Particularly advantageous stimulation protocols have a minimum peak current amplitude of 2 mA.

In some embodiments the maximum current level permitted for a single pair of electrodes or group of electrodes is an average or cumulative value over a period of time chosen from the group of less than about 100 minutes less than about 30 minutes less than about 10 minutes less than about 5 minutes less than about 2 minutes less than about 1 minute less than about 30 seconds less than about 10 seconds less than about 5 seconds less than about 2 seconds less than about 1 seconds less than about 300 milliseconds less than about 100 milliseconds less than about 50 milliseconds less than about 10 milliseconds less than about 5 milliseconds or less than about 1 millisecond. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous periods of time that could be utilized with embodiments of the present invention and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any period of time.

In some embodiments the device may deliver random noise stimulation similar to tRNS. The noise may be purely random i.e. white noise . In some embodiments the noise is structured e.g. pink noise . In some embodiments the electrical stimulation is delivered with higher power in the frequency band between about 100 Hz and about 640 Hz. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous types of noise structured or unstructured that could be utilized with embodiments of the present invention and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any type of noise.

In some embodiments the device is configured so that the effect induced by the stimulation is mediated at least in part by neurons. In alternative embodiments of the invention the device is configured so that the effect is mediated at least in part by non neuronal cells. In some embodiments of the invention the device is configured so that the induced electric field has higher intensity in one or more targeted white matter tracts nerves or ganglia. In alternative embodiments of the invention the device is configured so that the induced electric field has higher intensity in one or more targeted regions of grey matter. In some embodiments of the invention the directionality of one or more electrical fields is modulated during a user s session. In alternative embodiments of the invention the location and or intensity of one or more electrical fields is modulated during a user s session.

The number and placement of electrodes along with the stimulation parameters determines the induced cognitive effect on a user. In some embodiments multiple electrodes are used with a single current generator such that there are one or more anode and cathode electrodes. In other embodiments multiple current generators create multiple current source sink pairs to create a desired spatial pattern of electrical current density at one or more target sites in the brain. In various embodiments of the invention the number of electrodes used is chosen from the group of more than 2 electrodes more than 3 electrodes more than 4 electrodes more than 5 electrodes more than 7 electrodes more than 10 electrodes more than 15 electrodes more than 25 electrodes more than 50 electrodes more than 100 electrodes more than 500 electrodes more than 1000 electrodes more than 5000 electrodes or more than 10000 electrodes.

In some embodiments one or more dominant frequencies of AC are individualized for a user based on their own endogenous brain rhythms. The peak frequency for behaviorally relevant rhythms such as alpha rhythms can vary by several Hz between individuals. Thus in some embodiments of the invention the device is configured to modulate alpha or other rhythms at the frequency observed in that user with EEG or another form of brain recording. In an embodiment of the invention brain rhythms are modulated by transmitted alternating current electrical stimulation at a similar frequency and either in phase or out of phase with an endogenous brain rhythm.

In some embodiments one or more dominant AC frequencies are chosen such that electrical coupling is more effective or optimal for one or more cell types pyramidal neurons interneurons glial cells or other cell types based on their membrane time constants ion channel kinetics or other biophysical property. In other embodiments one or more dominant AC frequencies are chosen to optimize coupling for a subcellular compartment such as the dendrite axon hillock cell body or synapse.

In some embodiments of the invention the electrical stimulation is pulsed as shown in . illustrates a targeted AC stimulation protocol involving repeated pulsing shown in waveforms and . also depicts the protocol duration 204 and repetition period . As shown the protocol repetition period is the inverse of the repetition frequency. Pulsing electrical stimulation can be an effective strategy for inducing a cognitive effect.

Pulsed stimulation can use AC and or DC as shown in . depicts a DC stimulation protocol including pulsing and repeating shown in waveforms . The protocol duration 304 is also shown. The protocol repetition period is equal to the inverse of the repetition frequency. In some embodiments the device delivers a protocol of two or more pulses chosen from the group of about more than 2 pulses about more than 3 pulses about more than 4 pulses about more than 5 pulses about more than 10 pulses about more than 20 pulses about more than 50 pulses about more than 100 pulses about more than 500 pulses about more than 1000 pulses about more than 10000 pulses or more pulses. The inter pulse time and the number of pulses can determine the stimulation protocol duration 204 304. In some embodiments a pulsed protocol is repeated at a protocol repetition frequency chosen from the group of about more than 0.001 Hz about more than 0.01 Hz about more than 0.1 Hz about more than 1 Hz about more than 5 Hz about more than 10 Hz about more than 20 Hz about more than 50 Hz about more than 100 Hz about more than 250 Hz about more than 500 Hz about more than 1000 Hz or faster. In some embodiments of the invention the pulse repetition rate is modulated during a user session. In some embodiments of the invention the pulse repetition rate is specific to a subset of one or more electrodes. Different electrodes or subsets of electrodes are pulsed with different repetition rates. Similarly in some embodiments different electrodes or subsets of electrodes are driven at different frequencies and or with different amplitudes.

Computational models can be advantageous for modeling the transmission of electric fields in the brain. Effective computational models account for differential field shaping effects of different tissue types e.g. skin skull white matter grey matter etc. to derive an accurate estimate of induced electric fields.

In some embodiments two or more electrodes are configured to optionally record EEG by switching appropriate electrically connected circuits. In other embodiments two or more EEG electrodes and electrical hardware for amplifying filtering and otherwise processing EEG signals are incorporated into the electrical stimulation device. In some embodiments EEG electrodes and electrical hardware are contained in one or more separate housings and further comprise wired or wireless systems for transmitting raw and or processed EEG signals to an electrical stimulation device.

A finite element model FEM can aid in estimating electric fields in the body including the brain spinal cord and nerves e.g. cranial nerves and can be used to determine the number location size and shape of stimulating electrodes to use for delivering current to a desired target area. The FEM also determines stimulation parameters for each electrode if there is a single reference electrode or pair of electrodes if multiple reference electrodes are used in order to create a focused electric field in a brain region of interest. FEM models can be configured to optimize for both intensity and direction of current with a particular spatial and temporal profile. Both the strength and direction of an induced electric field determine the neuromodulation that occurs. The direction of an electrical field is thought to most significantly affect neuromodulation of white matter.

FEM electric field calculations can be employed to estimate the spatial distribution of current density in the brain for a particular electrode montage and stimulation protocol. FEM s that use a Standard Model assume a fixed anatomy. The electric field distribution during electrical stimulation is strongly dependent on the electric tissue properties of skin skull cerebrospinal fluid and brain tissue. These anatomical and biophysical parameters are incorporated into FEM models. To determine useful electrode configurations and stimulation protocols an algorithm optimizes electrode positions and currents for a search space that includes one or more of electrode positions and maximum and or minimum currents at the electrodes electrode size and electrode shape. The optimization maximizes the electric field in a certain brain area and minimizes field strength at surrounding regions to achieve desired focality.

Recent research and disclosures have described workflows and related methods for FEM of electric fields in the brain. Some of these FEM models have used an idealized spherical model of the head DaSilva et al. 2011 and Tyler et al. U.S. Patent application 61 663 409 the full disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

More focused electric fields can be achieved with electrode configurations with one or more electrodes that surround a central electrode and are configured to pass current between the central electrode and the one or more surrounding electrodes. In embodiments of the invention a set of cathodes surrounds a single anode. In alternative embodiments a set of anodes surrounds a single cathode. shows the results of FEM analysis with a Standard Model 601 for a triangle shaped electrode configuration. For each panel four circle shaped electrodes radius 1 cm are modeled over premotor cortex. The anode is placed in the center and the cathodes are placed in the triangle corners. shows the distribution of electric potential on the scalp. The potential of the anode is set to 1 Volt 603 and the potential of the cathodes is set to 0 Volt. By adjusting the potential difference between the anode and cathodes current is induced. shows the distribution of electric potential in the brain. High potentials are confined to a small volume underneath the anode. shows the absolute magnitude of the electric field in the brain. Compared to the large electrodes of high electric fields are confined to a small volume underneath the electrodes .

In an alternative embodiment similar targeting is achieved with two ring electrodes in a concentric arrangement that is also an effective embodiment for a single enclosure TES assembly. shows the results of FEM analysis with a Standard Model 701 concentric ring electrodes. The anode radius 1 cm is placed over the premotor cortex. The cathode inner radius 1.5 cm outer radius 4 cm surrounds the cathode. shows the electric potential on the scalp by shading. The potential of the anode is set to 1 Volt 704 and the potential of the cathode is set to 0 Volt. shows the distribution of electric potential in the brain. High potentials occur underneath the anode. shows the absolute magnitude of the electric field in the brain. Shown is the absolute magnitude of the electric field. High electric field strengths are confined to a limited area underneath the concentric electrode configuration.

Changing the relative size of the concentric electrodes is effective for altering the size of the area stimulated. use a Standard Model 801 with a large central anode radius 3 cm placed over premotor cortex and a thin outer electrode inner radius 3.5 cm outer radius 4 cm . A broad cortical area is activated. shows electric potential on the scalp. The potential of the anode is set to 1 Volt 804 and the potential of the cathode is set to 0 Volt. shows electric potential in the brain. The area of high potential is larger spatially compared to the configuration in . shows the absolute magnitude of electric fields in the brain. The area of strong electric fields is more extended compared to the configuration in . By changing the relative sizes of the electrodes the electric field distribution in the brain can be focused or defocused.

It will be appreciated that each electrode configuration and combination of electrode configurations described herein can be used with any other embodiments of stimulation devices or protocols described herein.

An alternative embodiment of a disposable electrical stimulation device is shown in . Six electrodes are arranged in a concentric manner with five electrodes surrounding a central electrode in a fixed pentagram arrangement. In some embodiments all surrounding electrodes are configured as cathodes and the central electrode is the anode. The electrodes can be foam electrodes. In some embodiments all surrounding electrodes are configured as anodes and the central electrode is the cathode. In an alternative embodiment some of the surrounding electrodes form a set with the central electrode as either the anode or cathode and one or more of the remaining electrodes is the cathode or anode . The flex portion comprising the electrodes may conform to the curvature of a body part e.g. the head . The flex circuit incorporates electrical conductive wires used to transmit stimulation from an electrical circuit . In some embodiments the electrical circuit is constructed on a printed circuit board PCB or silicon chip. The electrical circuit includes a battery . In some embodiments there is an on off switch for the user to control activation of the electrical stimulation system. In the schematic of a housing for the assembly is not shown.

In an alternative embodiment the system is semi disposable. shows the same six electrode configuration as and also incorporates a battery in the flex circuit portion of the assembly. The battery and the electrodes are disposable. The flex portion comprising the electrodes may conform to the curvature of a body part e.g. the head . The electrodes can connect to the flex circuit using a connector e.g. a micro snap . A connector is used to interface with a rigid board containing electrical components for achieving the desired form of electrical stimulation and an on off switch for user actuated control of the system. The disposable flex circuit can be disconnected from the reusable printed circuit board or other electrical circuit assembly at the connector . As shown in in some embodiments the flex circuit is longer and shaped to go behind a subject s ear in a similar fashion to an eyeglass frame. The flex circuit can be any shape for convenience and comfort of placing the assembly on the user s head.

An embodiment of a fully disposable stimulation device designed to be contained in a single housing with a small cross sectional area footprint is shown in . depicts a top view of the device showing the on off switch on the circuit board . also illustrates the connector connecting the circuit board to the flex circuit . depicts a bottom view showing the electrodes and flex circuit beneath the circuit board . and D depict views of the profile of the device.

As shown in the disposable portion in the present embodiment is configured to snap into the main housing of the device. shows the disposable portion snapped into position within the main housing of the stimulation device. Once inserted into the main housing an optional backer shown in may be removed from the side of the disposable portion that is opposite to the main housing side revealing one or more electrodes and an adherent e.g. adhesive foam shown in . The adherent and electrodes are configured to be removably or reversibly secured to the skin of a user through the application of a mild to moderate amount of force. As indicated by the arrows in the force can be applied to a first spot and then in a circular pattern around the housing . As shown in the adherent electrodes and or backer may gap depending on the curvature of the body part onto which it is placed.

Continuing from the example and embodiment above shows the disengagement of the disposable portion from the main housing. A user can push the center of the disposable portion indicated with an arrow in to release the housing from the disposable portion . shows the disengagement of the disposable portion from the skill of the user by peeling the portion from the skin.

According to an embodiment of the present invention show the location of an integrated replaceable or disposable battery on the underside of the device housing . illustrates the battery door open while illustrates the battery door closed.

In some embodiments the device electrode assembly incorporates tracks for moving one or more electrodes. shows an embodiment of a four electrode configuration but a similarly configurable system can use any number of electrodes. Electrodes on the outer track can move around the assembly along a track . In various embodiments the three outer electrodes are equidistant from each other or grouped asymmetrically . In some embodiments a central electrode can also move laterally along a track until stopped by a tab or other mechanical component . By moving the position of both the central electrode and the surrounding electrodes a rich set of stimulation areas and directions can be achieved in the underlying brain tissue.

In some embodiments the focality of stimulation can be controlled for a fixed set of electrodes by changing which electrodes serve as anodes or cathodes. In an embodiment the electrodes are concentric and connect to gates or switches that determine whether a particular electrode is connected to the positive or negative terminal. This allows adjusting focus or direction of the electric field without requiring changing the placement of the electrodes or changing the peak current. This adjustment could be done by the user by pressing a button or automatically by the system. The general idea is to have multiple gates in the PCB that allow connecting or disconnecting the positive and negative leads to any set of the electrodes thus specifying each electrode as part of the anode part of the cathode or inactive. A similar configurable system for focusing electric fields can be achieved with a triangle configuration as shown in or pie configuration as shown in of electrodes.

In some embodiments application software e.g. an app installed on a PC laptop smartphone tablet or other computerized platform running an iOS Android Windows or other operating system is configured to transmit a time varying voltage or current signal through the headphone jack output or other plug interface on the device. This application software may be configured as non transitory control logic that causes the processor e.g. of the computer smartphone etc. to perform the functional and transformative steps described herein. For example in such embodiments the timing and amplitude of stimulation by the device can be transmitted from the remote processor executing the control logic. In an embodiment the trigger signal is transmitted wirelessly by the smartphone or tablet via Bluetooth low energy BTLE or another wireless communication protocol. In an embodiment the stimulation device is powered by a USB or other wired communication port of the PC laptop smartphone tablet or other computerized platform. In an embodiment specialized hardware permits analog communication via the headphone jack such as the HiJack system developed at the University of Michigan and available via Seeed Studios. In this manner control signals for the timing intensity pulsing or alternating current carrier frequency can be generated by the mobile device and transmitted directly to the electrical circuitry of the stimulation device. Configurations that use a smartphone tablet laptop or other external processor can be advantageous because they remove the requirement for a microcontroller in the electrical circuit of the stimulation device by shifting the processing burden to the mobile device. In some embodiments a program running on a desktop or laptop computer transmits a control signal for the stimulation device via serial USB or other transmission protocol.

In any of the apparatuses described herein the apparatus may include an input to the controller processor which may be referred to as a control input the control input may be a manual input on the device e.g. button dial switch etc. or it may be a wireless receiver receiving wireless information or both .

In some variations the remote processor can be used to select a desired cognitive effect which corresponds to the electrode configuration setup to achieve the desired cognitive effect. In operation this may include selection of electrodes or a TES system that contains electrodes and determination of correct positions for electrodes. In the TES system referenced may include any of the apparatuses described herein. The user may be provided configuration instructions by one or more ways as indicated in including but not limited to instructions provided via user interface kit provided to user wearable system configured to contact TES electrodes to appropriate Portions of a user s body electrode choice and positioning done autonomously by user e.g. due to previous experience with TES assistance provided by skilled practitioner of TES and instructions provided via other means.

Based on these instructions or knowledge a subject or technician may position electrodes on body . The apparatuses and method of using them described herein may advantageously be self applied by the subject although a third party may also apply the device or assist in application . In some embodiments the TES session starts automatically after electrodes are positioned on the body. In other embodiments the impedance of the electrodes is checked by a TES system before the TES session starts . In some embodiments after impedance of the electrodes is checked by a TES system user actuates TES device before the TES session starts . In other embodiments after positioning electrodes on the body the user actuates the TES device to start the TES session . Once the TES session starts the next step is to deliver electrical stimulation with specified stimulation protocol . In some embodiments a user actuates end of TES session . In other embodiments the TES session ends automatically when the stimulation protocol completes .

A wearable TES delivery unit may be configured to communicate bidirectionally e.g. duplex with wireless communication protocol to microprocessor controlled system . The system can be configured to communicate various forms of data wirelessly including but not limited to trigger signals control signals safety alert signals stimulation timing stimulation duration stimulation intensity other aspects of stimulation protocol electrode quality electrode impedance and battery levels. Communication may be made with devices and controllers using methods known in the art including but not limited to RF WIFI WiMax Bluetooth BLE UHF NHF GSM CDMA LAN WAN or another wireless protocol. Pulsed infrared light as transmitted for instance by a remote control is an additional wireless form of communication. Near Field Communication NFC is another useful technique for communicating with a neuromodulation system. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous wireless communication protocols that could be utilized with embodiments of the present invention and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any wireless communication protocol.

In some variations the apparatuses e.g. TES delivery unit do not include a user interface and is controlled exclusively through wireless communication protocol to control unit . In some variations the apparatus e.g. a wearable TES delivery unit does not include wireless antenna and chipset and is controlled exclusively through user interface .

The pattern of currents delivered into tissue of a subject e.g. transcranially into the brain may depend on the electrode configuration and stimulation protocol. For example an electrode configuration may be used with one or more set of parameters. The set of parameters may be selected based on the desired cognitive effect and the number of electrodes positions of electrodes sizes of electrode shapes of electrode composition of electrodes and anode cathode pairing of electrodes i.e. whether a set of electrodes is electrically coupled as an anode or cathode also whether multiple independent channels of stimulation are present via current sources driving independent anode cathode sets . A stimulation protocol may define the temporal pattern of current delivered to an anode cathode set and can incorporate one or more waveform components selected from the list including but not limited to direct current alternating current pulsed current linear current ramp nonlinear current ramp exponential current ramp modulation of current and more complex including repeated random pseudo random and chaotic patterns . In operation the device may provide current flow at target areas e.g. in the brain to induce neuromodulation when appropriate electrode configurations and stimulation protocols are delivered.

Any of these control steps may be performed via a user interface. Further the user interface may include features available before during the session and or after the session . For example feedback during the session may include intensity control a timer user feedback collection monitoring and stop cancel control . User interface features available after the session may include feedback about the electrical stimulation historical information about the operation of the apparatus and user controls to repeat prior session parameters . The remote processor may also be controlled to communicate wirelessly with the apparatus and to control the delivery of electrical stimulation to the subject as well as control and indicate when the session is complete . The apparatus may also include a stop override not shown to stop stimulation immediately regardless of the control from the remote processor.

Another variation of a lightweight wearable and self contained electrical stimulation apparatus is shown in . In this example the apparatus includes a primary unit housing a power source processor controller and wireless communication module. The outer housing of the apparatus includes an indicator which can be illuminated when the device is on and ready to operate an LED light may indicate status e.g. on off transmit receive etc. . The primary unit also includes an electrode that can be placed in contact with the subject s skin as illustrated in . A secondary unit is connected to the primary unit by a cable . The secondary unit also includes an electrode and can be adhesively attached to the subject. In this example the primary unit is connected to the subject s neck shoulder region and the secondary unit is independently positioned and adhesively connected to the subject s head as illustrated in . The positions of the primary and secondary units may be reversed.

In some embodiments configured to be powered by a USB or other connection to a computerized system electrical isolation hardware is incorporated in the stimulation device to protect the user from unexpected electrical surges and voltage boosting hardware is optionally configured to boost 1V 3V 5V or other low voltage inputs to about 9V or about 12V or another higher voltage level.

In some embodiments the device comprises sensors and related components to record measurements related to brain activity detect skin resistance salinity or humidity temperature electromyogram EMG galvanic skin response GSR heart rate blood pressure respiration rate pulse oximetry pupil dilation eye movement gaze direction or measure other physiological or ambient signals. For example in some embodiments the device may be configured to perform an electroencephalogram EEG . The stimulation device can include sensors and electrical control and signal processing hardware.

In some embodiments the stimulation protocol is adjusted based on a physiological measurement of the body that takes the form of one or more measurements chosen from the group of electromyogram EMG galvanic skin response GSR heart rate blood pressure respiration rate pulse oximetry pupil dilation eye movement gaze direction or other physiological measurement known to one skilled in the art. For example the device may be configured to utilize the one or more physiological measurements to start or stop one or more functionalities e.g. begin or end a stimulation session .

In some embodiments a physiological or cognitive measurement is used to detect a cognitive state of the user. For example in an embodiment the unit turns on when the user is tired and is configured to increase a user s energy alertness and or wakefulness. In another embodiment anxiety or stress is detected in a user by measuring galvanic skin response or another physiological measurement that correlates anxiety or stress and the stimulation device is configured to reduce anxiety and or stress. In another embodiment the device is configured to modify the amplitude or phase of a brain rhythm. For instance in an embodiment the device can be triggered to enhance synchrony in an alpha beta or gamma frequency band to affect attention working memory and or decision making.

In some embodiments the placement of electrodes is adjusted based on a procedure that delivers a test pulse of known electrical current through one or more electrodes and measures the induced electric field.

In some embodiments a stimulation device is configured for therapeutic use in a user who is a patient. In some embodiments of the invention the device is configured for use by a consumer without oversight by a technician medical professional or other skilled practitioner.

In some embodiments targeted stimulation is combined with other neuromodulatory stimulation techniques to achieve effects in the brain. These embodiments are advantageous for neuromodulation that is not possible with either effect by itself. Other brain stimulation modalities include transcranial ultrasound neuromodulation transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS deep brain stimulation DBS optogenetic stimulation one electrode or an array of electrodes implanted on the surface of the brain or dura electrocorticography ECoG arrays and other modalities of brain stimulation known to one skilled in the art.

In some embodiments the one or more effects of using multiple forms of neuromodulation are chosen from the list of increasing the spatial extent of stimulation decreasing the spatial extent of stimulation reshaping the spatial extent of stimulation modifying the nature of the induced neuromodulation increasing the intensity of neuromodulation decreasing the intensity of neuromodulation mitigating a cognitive or behavioral affect enhancing a cognitive or behavioral affect modifying the cells affected by neuromodulation modifying the cellular compartments affected by neuromodulation or another modification of the neuromodulating energy transmitted into the brain and or nervous system.

Combining targeted stimulation with transcranial ultrasound neuromodulation can be advantageous for more effectively targeting the temporal and or spatial extent of neuromodulation. Combining targeted stimulation with transcranial ultrasound neuromodulation can also be beneficial for shaping the induced cognitive behavioral perceptual motor or other change in brain function. For instance stimulation could be used to clamp shallow areas near the brain surface so that no change in brain function occurs during the transmission of ultrasound to a deeper brain region desired to be affected by transcranial ultrasound neuromodulation. In another embodiment of the invention that combines electrical stimulation and transcranial ultrasound neuromodulation supralinear enhancement of neuromodulation is achieved so that low energy levels to improve the safe operation of the system. In an embodiment components for delivering transcranial ultrasound neuromodulation are integrated in an electrical stimulation device.

In some embodiments neuromodulation is targeted to more than one brain region or other portion of the nervous system e.g. spinal cord or cranial nerves . In some embodiments targeted stimulation or another technique for neuromodulation targets a first brain region to induce a set of behavioral cognitive or other effects while concurrently or in close temporal relation targeting a second brain region to counteract a subset of the effects of stimulation targeting the first brain region. In this manner the functional effect of neuromodulation can be shaped to reduce unwanted side effects. In some embodiments that target multiple brain regions the brain regions are anatomically nearby brain regions. In other embodiments that target multiple brain regions the brain regions are anatomically distant brain regions.

In some embodiments of the invention in which multiple brain regions are targeted with a pre defined temporal relationship the device is configured to target a first brain region and a second brain region to counteract an unwanted effect occurring in or mediated by the second brain region caused by stimulation of the first region. In some embodiments of the invention in which multiple brain regions are targeted with a pre defined temporal relationship the device is configured to target additional brain regions to counteract the effects of stimulating a first and or second brain region. In some embodiments of the invention in which multiple brain regions are targeted with a pre defined temporal relationship the device is configured for concurrent stimulation of the first and second brain regions. In some embodiments of the invention in which multiple brain regions are targeted with a pre defined temporal relationship the device is configured such that stimulation of the first and second brain regions occurs with a specified latency where the latency is chosen from the group of less than about 30 seconds less than about 10 seconds less than about 5 seconds less than about 1 second less than about 500 milliseconds less than about 250 milliseconds less than about 100 milliseconds less than about 50 milliseconds less than about 40 milliseconds less than about 30 milliseconds less than about 20 milliseconds less than about 10 milliseconds less than about 5 milliseconds less than about 2 milliseconds or less than about 1 millisecond.

In some embodiments of the invention in which multiple brain regions are targeted with a pre defined temporal relationship parameters of stimulation of multiple brain regions and relative timing of stimulation are determined based on feedback from a measurement of brain activity behavior cognition sensory perception motor performance emotion or state of arousal.

In some embodiments the device is configured to induce spike timing dependent plasticity in one or more targeted brain regions. In some embodiments for inducing spike timing dependent plasticity the device is configured to re create patterns of neural activity in and or between distinct brain regions during which transduction delays of between about 1 ms and about 30 ms occur.

In some embodiments random noise stimulation is delivered. Random noise stimulation has been shown to induce neuroplasticity Terney et al. 2008 . Advantageous embodiments that use random noise stimulation delivered by TES target specific brain regions for neuroplasticity or broader areas as large as a cortical hemisphere or the entire brain.

In some embodiments the timing of targeted stimulation is designed to modulate brain activity that occurs in the temporal domain. In some embodiments stimulation is used to activate inhibit or modulate brain rhythms in one or more brain regions. In some embodiments stimulation is targeted to multiple connected regions in the brain that normally communicate with a known temporal latency. By stimulating multiple brain regions communication or coupling between disparate brain regions can be enhanced disrupted phase shifted or otherwise modulated.

In some embodiments brain recordings are used to measure the effect of targeted stimulation. This technique is advantageous for providing feedback in some embodiments real time feedback concerning the targeting timing and stimulation parameters for targeted stimulation and or other techniques for neuromodulation used. In this embodiment of the invention the measurement of brain activity takes the form of one or a plurality of electroencephalography EEG magnetoencephalography MEG functional magnetic resonance imaging fMRI functional near infrared spectroscopy fNIRS positron emission tomography PET single photon emission computed tomography SPECT computed tomography CT functional tissue pulsatility imaging fTPI xenon 133 imaging or other techniques for measuring brain activity known to one skilled in the art.

In some embodiments the effect on the brain is measured by a cognitive assessment that takes the form of one or more of a test of motor control a test of cognitive state a test of cognitive ability a sensory processing task an event related potential assessment a reaction time task a motor coordination task a language assessment a test of attention a test of emotional state a behavioral assessment an assessment of emotional state an assessment of obsessive compulsive behavior a test of social behavior an assessment of risk taking behavior an assessment of addictive behavior a standardized cognitive task an assessment of cognitive flexibility such as the Stroop task a working memory task such as the n back task tests that measure learning rate or a customized cognitive task.

In some embodiments physiological monitoring is used to measure the effect of electrical stimulation. This technique is advantageous for providing feedback in some embodiments real time feedback concerning the targeting timing and stimulation parameters for targeted stimulation and or other techniques for neuromodulation used. In this embodiment of the invention the measurement of physiological signals takes the form of one or a plurality of electromyogram EMG galvanic skin response GSR heart rate blood pressure respiration rate pulse oximetry pupil dilation eye movement gaze direction or other physiological measurement known to one skilled in the art.

In another aspect of an embodiment of the invention a device assists a user or other individual in placing electrodes at appropriate locations to achieve a desired form of neuromodulation. Methods for guiding the user or other individual to place electrodes at the one or more desired locations includes one or more from the group of fiduciary markers on the head ratiometric measurements relative to fiduciary markers on the head alignment components that detect relative location of electrode components by proximity as measured by radiofrequency energy ultrasound or light or a grid or other alignment system such as the position of the electrodes themselves projected onto the head of the user. In some embodiments of the invention an indicator provides feedback when the electrode positioning is achieved through a light sound or tactile based indicator.

In some embodiments of the invention a user or other individual identifies fiduciary markers to assist in targeting. Fiduciary markers on the head include those used for placing EEG electrodes in the standard 10 20 arrangement. The nasion is the point between the forehead and the nose. The inion is the lowest point of the skull from the back of the head and is normally indicated by a prominent bump.

In some embodiments neuromodulation is achieved exclusively via electrodes placed on portions of the head face and neck that do not have hair to reduce the need for additional material or system components for coupling the electrical current to the scalp. Targeted stimulation is achieved with a system that includes one or more electrodes placed on hairless portions of the head face and neck. In some embodiments an electrode placed on the periphery below the neck is used to deliver a spatially broad electrical field to the brain.

In some embodiments of the invention multiple stimulation devices are used to deliver a focused electric field to a deeper brain region. One method for targeting an electrical field at depth in the brain is to deliver AC from multiple sets of electrodes and select anode cathode pairs stimulus amplitude and frequency and relative timing or phase delay of stimulation so that constructive and destructive interference among transmitted electric fields create a focused region of neuromodulation. In some embodiments a master device controls the timing and stimulus parameters among one or more slave devices in order to achieve improved focusing of stimulation.

In another aspect of an embodiment of the invention the placement of electrodes and spatiotemporal pattern of stimulation delivered through the electrodes is configured for targeting the ventromedial prefrontal cortex for neuromodulation VmPFC Brodmann area 10 . Targeting to the VmPFC can be advantageous for modulating emotion risk decision making and fear.

In another aspect of an embodiment of the invention the placement of electrodes and spatiotemporal pattern of stimulation delivered through the electrodes is configured for targeting the orbitofrontal cortex for neuromodulation OFC Brodmann 10 11 14 16 . Targeting to the OFC can be advantageous for modulating executive control and decision making.

In some embodiments the system or device is configured to target one or more regions of cerebral cortex where the region of cerebral cortex chosen from the group of striate visual cortex visual association cortex primary and secondary auditory cortex somatosensory cortex primary motor cortex supplementary motor cortex premotor cortex the frontal eye fields prefrontal cortex orbitofrontal cortex dorsolateral prefrontal cortex ventrolateral prefrontal cortex anterior cingulate cortex and other area of cerebral cortex.

In some embodiments the system or device is configured to target one or more deep brain regions chosen from the group of the limbic system including the amygdala hippocampus parahippocampal formation entorhinal cortex subiculum thalamus hypothalamus white matter tracts brainstem nuclei cerebellum neuromodulatory nucleus or other deep brain region.

In some embodiments the system or device is configured to target one or more brain regions that mediate sensory experience motor performance and the formation of ideas and thoughts as well as states of emotion physiological arousal sexual arousal attention creativity relaxation empathy connectedness and other cognitive states.

In some embodiments modulation of neuronal activity underlying multiple sensory domains and or cognitive states occurs concurrently or in close temporal arrangements.

In some embodiments a device can be configured via a user interface on the device e.g. selector switch or wireless interface via another device e.g. smartphone tablet laptop or desktop computer for targeting a particular brain region. For instance a user may be able to configure the particular type of neuromodulation utilized by using a smartphone application connected to an application programming interface API provided by the device over a wireless connection via a local area network. In this manner the device can be conveniently changed between two or more types of stimulation.

In some embodiments coupling between a stimulating electrode and the skin is achieved with a semi permeable sack between the electrode and the skin that releases a small amount of water or other conductive liquid when squeezed. In some embodiments of this aspect of the invention the water or other conductive liquid evaporates after the TES session and does not require cleanup.

The electrode apparatuses described herein may also be referred to as cantilever electrode apparatuses. The cantilever electrode apparatuses described herein may act as an interface between a wearable lightweight and self contained neurostimulator e.g. a primary unit which may also be referred to herein as an electrical stimulator and or neuromodulation system and a subject s body particularly the head or head and neck region where stimulation is to be applied. As mentioned these cantilever electrode apparatuses may be disposable or semi disposable components that are connected to the neurostimulator and applied directly to the subject energy typically current from the neurostimulator is guided and delivered to the subject by the cantilever electrode apparatus. Although the neurostimulator may be small and lightweight the cantilever electrode apparatus may allow it to secure to the subject s body and deliver energy to two or more regions on the body e.g. temple neck chest etc. that are separated by a distance that is much greater than the size of the neurostimulator.

The cantilever electrode apparatuses described herein generally include at least two electrode regions separated from each other along an elongate body. The cantilever electrode apparatus typically attaches to the neurostimulator device by two or more electrical connectors which may be referred to herein as connectors that are in electrical contact with the electrode regions. The electrical contacts may be positioned on the cantilever electrode apparatus adjacent each other and in a particular manner that permits both the secure attachment to the neurostimulator and prevents disruption of the electrical contact while the cantilever electrode apparatus is worn by the subject even while the subject moves about. For example the spacing of the connectors may be between 0.6 and 0.9 inches apart on center from center to center and more preferably between about 0.7 inches and about 0.8 inches. The electrical connectors typically extend from the otherwise substantially flat surface of the cantilever electrode apparatus and may plug into the neurostimulator. The electrical connectors may mechanically engage with the neurostimulator e.g. they may be snaps which may also provide mechanical support for the connection between the cantilever electrode apparatus and the neurostimulator and thereby help support and hold the neurostimulator on the subject s body when the cantilever electrode apparatuses is attached to the subject s.

In general the cantilever electrode apparatuses include two or more connectors at or near one end of the elongate body of the cantilever electrode apparatus and two or more electrode regions are positioned along the elongate body of the cantilever electrode apparatus. The two or more connectors which may also be referred to as electrical connectors may be at one end and help secure the entire cantilever electrode apparatus to the neurostimulator even while a second electrode region is positioned at a distance e.g. greater than 2 inches greater than 3 inches greater than 4 inches etc. along the elongate body of the cantilever electrode apparatus from the connectors and another electrode region.

Each electrode region of the cantilever electrode apparatuses described herein typically includes an active region on a back side of the electrode region that is adapted to contact the subject. The active region may include a hydrogel that transfers energy e.g. current from the neurostimulator to the subject s skin. The active region is in electrical communication with the connector.

In general the elongate body forming the cantilever electrode apparatuses may be made of a material that is rigid in at least one direction even while flexible in another direction. For example the elongate body of the cantilever electrode apparatus may be formed of a relatively flat sheet of material e.g. flex circuit material that is relatively thin e.g. less than 3 mm less than 2 mm less than 1 mm . The sheet of material may extend in a plane and the material may not be bendable in the direction of the plane although it may be bendable out of the direction e.g. can be curved up down and may twist. This partial rigidity may help support the cantilever electrode apparatus on the body while allowing it to conform to a wide variety of subject body sizes. In some variations the cantilever electrode apparatus is made of a material that is rigid but can be bent by the application of force to hold a shape. For example the elongate body of the cantilever electrode apparatus may be ductile e.g. may be made at least in part of a shape memory material that allows bending.

The configuration of the cantilever electrode apparatuses described herein may provide numerous benefits compared to other possible arrangements including variations in which a wire or separate connection connects a second or more electrode region to a neurostimulator. For example the cantilever electrode apparatuses described herein may include least a few mm of adhesive surrounding the active area of each electrode which may help make good contact with the skin when the cantilever electrode apparatus is attached to a wearable neurostimluator. For electrode apparatuses and microstimulators that are configured to be worn on the temple e.g. adjacent to the eye the amount of adhesive in one portion of the electrode apparatus may be limited in particular the portion that will be positioned below a lower edge of the electrode to prevent the unit from extending too far towards the eye and or towards the hairline at the temple. In some variations it is desirable to have the cantilever electrode apparatus and the electrical stimulator with its overlaying hardware unit positioned on the face so that it does not interfere with a temple portion of a pair of glasses that may be worn while wearing the device e.g. the region adjacent to the ear . In addition it may be beneficial for the bottom edge of the cantilevered electrode assembly at the first electrode portion to correspond with the bottom edge of the electrical stimulator to help guide self placement using the lower edge of the device to align horizontally with the edge of the eye an easy landmark for self placement thus it may be beneficial to limit the amount of adhesive below around the lower section of the electrode.

As mentioned above there are also numerous benefits of using a connector for electrically connecting the active regions of the cantilever electrode apparatus to the electrical stimulator both mechanically and electrically. For example an apparatus that uses a mechanical and electrical connector such as a snap connector or other connector that stands proud from the relatively thin cantilever electrode apparatus may prevent miss adjustment of the apparatus. In particular it may be beneficial to have two connectors e.g. snaps rather than just wires or one snap and a wire to connect the wearable apparatus and the cantilevered electrode apparatus. The second mechanical electrical connector such as a snap may improve the physical connection between electrode adhesive pad and hardware unit neurostimulator electrical assembly . In addition the hardware unit neurostimulator electrical stimulator any electrode apparatus must fit under the temple portion of an eyeglass frame for users wearing glasses thus the portion of the combined assembly electrode assembly and neurostimulator should ideally be thin enough to fit between glasses and the temple region. However it may also be beneficial to have some portions of the system e.g. the neurostimulator be sufficiently thick to allow the apparatus to contain a sufficient battery or other power portion so that the unit can be used for a reasonable amount of time between charges. Thus one portion of the neurostimulator may be thick enough to allow a standard battery and or circuitry and at one end e.g. an end that is worn higher up on the face . Thus it may be beneficial to locate the mechanical electrical connectors such as snaps the extend proud from the cantilevered electrode assembly toward the thinner end separated from the battery compartment of the neurostimulator to reduce the overall thickness of the system in come variations allowing the connectors to under a PCB rather than under a thick battery portion or under both . However in some variations it may be beneficial to have the connector s be positioned under the batter portion or have one connector under the battery portion and one connector under the thinner region separated from the battery portion.

For example in some variations it may be beneficial to have one connector on the electrode assembly e.g. cantilevered electrode assembly near the portion of the neurostimulator hardware that is highest up on the forehead this may help ensure that this upper portion of the device doesn t pull away from the electrode. If that happens then the weight of the hardware unit may pull the electrode further from the head and eventually lead to poor contact between the electrode active area and the skin. An adhesive may be used between the neurostimulator and the electrode assembly to prevent this alternatively or additionally an additional mechanical connector may be used an adhesive may be considered on type of mechanical connector and may be present on the electrode assembly and or on the neurostimulator body .

It may also be beneficial to have at least one of the electrical mechanical connectors such as a snap at or near and preferably behind the active area of the first electrode portion as this may make the electrical connection with the hardware unit easier and more robust.

As will be described in greater detail in reference to the overall shape of the neurostimulator may be triangular and particularly the surface of the neurostimulator though curved concave and twisted adapted connect to the electrode apparatus and face the patient may be three sided e.g. roughly triangular . This roughly triangular shape may include rounded edges and the thickness of the stimulator in the direction perpendicular to the surface contacting the cantilevered electrode apparatus may vary e.g. be thinner along one side and particularly the side the portion between the orbital edge and the auricular edge that will extend between the eye and the temple. This shape may also be beneficial when helping to fit be worn on most people in a region of the face head that tend to not have hair. This thin lower corner the orbital auricular corner may fit between the eyebrow and hairline while the wider portion is positioned up in the forehead area where there is less likely to be hair.

In this example two connectors electrical and mechanical connectors shown in this example as snaps extend from the front of the cantilevered electrode apparatus. The front of the first electrical portion may also include an optional foam and or adhesive material through which the snaps extend proud of the first electrical portion. The first electrical portion is shaped and sized so that the snaps will connect to plugs ports holders opening female mating etc. on the electrical stimulator. As described above the connectors may be separated by between about 0.6 and about 0.9 inches e.g. between about 0.7 and about 0.8 inches etc. shown in and 2 as about 0.72 inches . The second electrode portion may also include a foam or backing portion . This foam backing region may be optional.

As described above the foam material over either or both of the front sides of the first and second electrode portions may be omitted. shows an example in which the foam material which may also or alternatively be an adhesive to help secure the cantilevered electrode apparatus to the neurostimulator is not included in the cantilevered electrode apparatus. In this example the connectors snaps alone may be used to secure the cantilevered electrode apparatus to the neurostimulator.

The cantilevered electrode apparatus show in may be particularly useful for example to connect a neurostimulator to a subject s head as illustrated in below and so that the neurostimulator is attached to the front side of the cantilevered electrode apparatus by snapping onto the proud connectors while the elongate body region is bent to extend behind the subject s head and down to a portion on the midline of the back of the patient s neck. Both the first electrode portion and the second electrode portion may be adhesively held with the electrically active regions against the skin allowing the neurostimulator to apply energy and in particular the waveforms as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 320 443 titled TRANSDERMAL ELECTRICAL STIMULATION METHODS FOR MODIFYING OR INDUCING COGNITIVE STATE and filed on Jun. 30 2014 and herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In general the elongate body region connecting the two electrode portions may be any appropriate length but is generally longer than a few inches e.g. longer than about 2 inches longer than about 3 inches longer than about 4 inches longer than about 5 inches longer than about 6 inches longer than about 7 inches longer than about 8 inches longer than about 9 inches etc. The elongate body region may also be bent or curved as illustrated in both the variations of and . The bend or curve in which the elongate body may even double back on itself may allow the material to flex or bend to allow it to be adjustably positioned over and or around the subject s head as shown in for example.

As mentioned above the connectors pins are spaced a predetermined distance apart e.g. between about 0.7 and 0.8 inches with the first pin behind and in direct electrical contact with the first electrically conductive region of the first electrode portion . The second connector pin is electrically insulated from the first connector and the first electrically conductive material and may be positioned so that it is not directly behind the first electrically active region but it is still in the first electrode portion and extends proud of the back of the first electrode portion e.g. the back of the substrate forming the first electrode portion .

In this example a neurostimulator not shown in may be attached to the cantilevered electrode apparatus either before or after it is applied to the subject. illustrate perspective views of one variation of a neurostimulation apparatus and shows the apparatus applied to a subject s head with a cantilevered electrode apparatus. shows a back view of the neurostimulator electrical applicator of .

In the various edges are labeled based on where the apparatus will be worn by the subject similar to what is illustrated in . In general the side of the unit worn toward the ear is the auricular edge the side worn highest on the forehead is the superior edge and the side worn nearest the eye eyebrow is the orbital edge. The overall shape of the neurostimulator is triangular including rounded edges . As used herein triangular includes shapes have rounded smooth transitions between the three sides as illustrated. The subject facing surface is specifically contoured to fit in the predefined orientation making it difficult or impossible for a subject to misapply and risk placing the active region of the attached cantilevered electrode apparatus in the wrong place. When attaching the cantilevered electrode apparatus to the neurostimulator the cantilevered electrode apparatus may flex or bend so that it is contoured to match the curved and twisted surface. This surface is a section of a saddle shape in which there is an axis of curvature around which the surface is concavely curved and an axis of twisting which may distort the curved surface the two axes may be different or the same .

As shown in the bottom surface of the neurostimulator to which the cantilevered electrode apparatus attaches including mating junctions openings receptacles female receivers etc. to receive and make electrical and mechanical contact with the connectors on the cantilevered electrode apparatus. These receivers may also be positioned to optimize the placement of the cantilevered electrode apparatus allowing it to make sufficient contact with the neurostimulator and subject and prevent the cantilevered electrode apparatus from bending or breaking contact even while the subject is mobile and or active.

Although the variations described above for the cantilevered electrode apparatus illustrate a flexible structure in which a substrate e.g. flex circuit material is thin and permitted to bend in at least one axis in some variations the cantilevered electrode apparatus may be rigid. illustrate two variations of rigid or semi rigid cantilevered electrode apparatuses.

In the device is shown as a CAD rendering of an exemplar neurostimulator attached to a cantilevered electrode apparatus that may be bendable ductile or hinged to achieve a wearable form factor allowing contact with different regions of the head neck. A neurostimulator not shown may include all or a subset of electronic components and may be attached to the projecting pins . For example an anode electrode the electrically active region of the first electrode portion may be positioned on the right temple area and electrically. When the posterior portion e.g. the second electrode region of the cantilevered electrode apparatus may be positioned so that a cathode electrode targeting the right mastoid behind the ear is positioned correctly electrode active region not shown .

Similarly the example shown in illustrates a region having a rigid elongate body including connector region of the elongate body the elongate body extends further and may allow contact with the second active region on the back of the subject s neck. All or a portion of the body may be ductile so that it can be bent into a shape allowing it to conform to the neck. In some variations the elongate body may be hinged to allow it to bend flex during use.

In any of the apparatuses described herein the electrodes may include an adhesive as described and illustrated above. Good adherence is generally a beneficial property of transdermal electrodes that permits uniform low impedance contact with a user s skin. Adhesive materials of an adhesive transdermal electrode may include a portion of the electrode intended for delivering electrical stimulation i.e. adhesive and conductive and or a portion of the electrode that is not intended for delivering electrical stimulation that is configured to cause an electrically conductive portion of the electrode to be in close physical contact i.e. low impedance contact with a user s skin.

Any of the electrodes described may include a buffer e.g. pH buffer . Any of the electrodes described herein may also include a silver silver chloride material Ag and AgCl . For example buffering pH and even distribution of current across the transdermal face of an electrode are beneficial properties of transdermal electrodes that improve the comfort of electrical stimulation particularly at high peak currents above 5 mA. Uniform current distribution and pH buffering can be improved by features of transdermal electrodes including the water composition of a hydrogel component of a transdermal electrode for TES and the amount of Ag and AgCl contained in a component that couples an electric current through the electrode to the skin. Water in a hydrogel component of a transdermal electrode or other water containing conductive material is consumed as net charge is transferred into a subject s body. Ag AgCl components of an electrode including components coated with Ag AgCl and Ag AgCl ink improve the efficiency of charge transfer to tissue essentially a salt solution and are also consumed during electrical stimulation.

Charge imbalanced TES waveforms are often necessary for inducing cognitive effects but these waveforms can consume Ag AgCl and water causing the degradation of transdermal electrodes and limited their effective use.

In some embodiments one or both electrodes includes a nonconsumptive conducting layer a consumptive conducting layer and a conductive hydrogel layer. In some embodiments the consumptive layer may be a buffer layer disposed between the nonconsumptive layer and the hydrogel layer. Further the consumptive layer may extend beyond the boundary of the nonconsumptive layer at each edge of the nonconsumptive layer and may be configured to reduce hydrolysis in the hydrogel layer such that the consumptive layer donates electrons for redox reactions. The nonconsumptive and consumptive layers may include silver gold copper or any other type of conductive metal or non metallic material such as carbon or conductive polymers e.g. poly 3 4 ethylenedioxythiophene . Preferably the nonconsumptive and consumptive layers include silver. An important feature of the nonconsumptive layer is that any electrochemical reactions occurring in that layer do not cause the quality of the layer as an electrical conductor i.e. impedance to change during a transdermal or transcranial stimulation session. This feature ensures that current delivered to the layer is for the most part distributed evenly over its surface first before entering the consumptive layer. In some embodiments the nonconsumptive layer experiences reduced consumption such as when the nonconsumptive layer includes silver. Alternatively the nonconsumptive layer may experience essentially zero consumption such as when the nonconsumptive layer includes carbon. In some embodiments the nonconsumptive layer experiences reduced consumption since it does not include an anion that can be electrically consumed during electrical stimulation. The nonconsumptive layer may disperse the electrical current over its surface area before reaching the consumptive layer. If the electrical current is not dispersed over the surface area of the nonconsumptive layer before reaching the consumptive layer the consumptive layer may be over consumed such that AgCl becomes Ag 0 in a local area of the consumptive layer surface causing uneven current distribution and the potential for local hydrolysis. In embodiments the consumptive layer is composed of a ratio of silver to silver chloride Ag AgCl for efficient consumption and electrochemistry. Optimal ratios can be selected based on the charge balance of stimulation or empirically based on comfort and cognitive effect induced in users. In some embodiments the ratio of Ag to AgCl particles in the consumptive layer may be between 40 60 to 95 5 preferably 65 35 to 85 15 . Alternatively the consumptive layer may include any suitable ratio of Ag AgCl such that the chloride may be consumed but not depleted. The AgCl in the consumptive layer is consumed during alternating current or direct current stimulation DC because it acts as a sacrificial anode cathode. If the consumptive layer does not fully cover the dermal side of the nonconsumptive layer the current may travel directly to the hydrogel layer and cause a site of high current density for example a current hotspot. A conductive hydrogel layer ensures that the current is transmitted substantially evenly to the skin of a user. Further the hydrogel layer creates a uniform connection between the multi electrode assembly and the skin of a user.

A flexible transdermal multi electrode assembly may further include an adhesive component. The adhesive component is configured to couple the flexible transdermal multi electrode assembly to a body portion of a user or any other device or system. The adhesive component may surround and or be adjacent to the boundary of the consumptive layer. In some embodiments the adhesive component and the three layers consumptive nonconsumptive and hydrogel of the electrode may be substantially the same thickness such that substantially all areas of the flexible assembly may be flush with the skin of a user. In some embodiments the hydrogel layer may extend slightly beyond the adhesive layer so that the hydrogel makes a more uniform contact through slight compression when the electrode is adhered to the skin.

When a feature or element is herein referred to as being on another feature or element it can be directly on the other feature or element or intervening features and or elements may also be present. In contrast when a feature or element is referred to as being directly on another feature or element there are no intervening features or elements present. It will also be understood that when a feature or element is referred to as being connected attached or coupled to another feature or element it can be directly connected attached or coupled to the other feature or element or intervening features or elements may be present. In contrast when a feature or element is referred to as being directly connected directly attached or directly coupled to another feature or element there are no intervening features or elements present. Although described or shown with respect to one embodiment the features and elements so described or shown can apply to other embodiments. It will also be appreciated by those of skill in the art that references to a structure or feature that is disposed adjacent another feature may have portions that overlap or underlie the adjacent feature.

Terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. For example as used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items and may be abbreviated as .

Spatially relative terms such as under below lower over upper and the like may be used herein for ease of description to describe one element or feature s relationship to another element s or feature s as illustrated in the figures. It will be understood that the spatially relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in use or operation in addition to the orientation depicted in the figures. For example if a device in the figures is inverted elements described as under or beneath other elements or features would then be oriented over the other elements or features. Thus the exemplary term under can encompass both an orientation of over and under. The device may be otherwise oriented rotated 370 degrees or at other orientations and the spatially relative descriptors used herein interpreted accordingly. Similarly the terms upwardly downwardly vertical horizontal and the like are used herein for the purpose of explanation only unless specifically indicated otherwise.

Although the terms first and second may be used herein to describe various features elements including steps these features elements should not be limited by these terms unless the context indicates otherwise. These terms may be used to distinguish one feature element from another feature element. Thus a first feature element discussed below could be termed a second feature element and similarly a second feature element discussed below could be termed a first feature element without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

As used herein in the specification and claims including as used in the examples and unless otherwise expressly specified all numbers may be read as if prefaced by the word about or approximately even if the term does not expressly appear. The phrase about or approximately may be used when describing magnitude and or position to indicate that the value and or position described is within a reasonable expected range of values and or positions. For example a numeric value may have a value that is 0.1 of the stated value or range of values 1 of the stated value or range of values 2 of the stated value or range of values 5 of the stated value or range of values 10 of the stated value or range of values etc. Any numerical range recited herein is intended to include all sub ranges subsumed therein.

Although various illustrative embodiments are described above any of a number of changes may be made to various embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention as described by the claims. For example the order in which various described method steps are performed may often be changed in alternative embodiments and in other alternative embodiments one or more method steps may be skipped altogether. Optional features of various device and system embodiments may be included in some embodiments and not in others. Therefore the foregoing description is provided primarily for exemplary purposes and should not be interpreted to limit the scope of the invention as it is set forth in the claims.

The examples and illustrations included herein show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. As mentioned other embodiments may be utilized and derived there from such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

