---

title: System and method for converting gestures into digital graffiti
abstract: The subject disclosure provides a device, computer readable storage medium, and method for converting gestures undergone by a device into digital graffiti. The disclosure includes ascertaining an orientation of the device and a path traversed by the device. Gestures undergone by the device are identified as a function of the orientation and the path. Digital graffiti corresponding to the gestures are then superimposed onto a digital canvas.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09661468&OS=09661468&RS=09661468
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09661468
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141002
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 499 016 filed Jul. 7 2009 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CONVERTING GESTURES INTO DIGITAL GRAFFITI which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The subject disclosure generally relates to mobile computing devices and more particularly to superimposing digital graffiti onto a digital canvas based on gestures undergone by a device.

By way of background concerning some conventional systems mobile devices such as portable laptops PDAs mobile phones navigation devices and the like have been equipped with location based services such as global positioning system GPS systems WiFi cell tower triangulation etc. that can determine and record a position of mobile devices. For instance GPS systems use triangulation of signals received from various satellites placed in orbit around Earth to determine device position. A variety of map based services have emerged from the inclusion of such location based systems that help users of these devices to be found on a map and to facilitate point to point navigation in real time and to search for locations near a point on a map.

However such navigation and search scenarios are currently limited to displaying relatively static information about particular locations wherein interacting with such locations require a user to provide an input via a touch screen and or keypad. For many potential interactions though considering the complexity of input on touch screens or tiny alphanumeric keypads typically provided for portable electronic devices requiring an input via such an interface is inadequate for invoking benefits of location based services. For instance a user quickly driving by a location may find it cumbersome and unnecessarily time consuming to both identify the location e.g. by obtaining a digital profile for a restaurant such as a Yelp profile and provide an input pertaining to the location via a touch screen keypad user interface e.g. a drawing of an unhappy face . Accordingly it would be desirable to develop a device with a user interface that provides users with location based input capabilities unobtainable and or impractical with a touch screen keypad user interface.

The above described deficiencies of today s location based systems and devices are merely intended to provide an overview of some of the problems of conventional systems and are not intended to be exhaustive. Other problems with the state of the art and corresponding benefits of some of the various non limiting embodiments may become further apparent upon review of the following detailed description.

A simplified summary is provided herein to help enable a basic or general understanding of various aspects of exemplary non limiting embodiments that follow in the more detailed description and the accompanying drawings. This summary is not intended however as an extensive or exhaustive overview. Instead the sole purpose of this summary is to present some concepts related to some exemplary non limiting embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description of the various embodiments that follow.

In various non limiting embodiments gestures are processed and converted into digital graffiti. In a first embodiment a portable electronic device is described. Within such embodiment the device includes a motion component that outputs motion information as a function of the device s movement. The device further includes a directional component that outputs direction information as a function of the device s orientation. The device also includes at least one processor configured to process the motion information and the direction information to track gestures undergone by the device. The at least one processor is further configured to superimpose digital graffiti corresponding to the gestures undergone by the device onto a digital canvas.

In another embodiment a computer readable storage medium is described which includes a memory component configured to store computer readable instructions for performing various acts. Within such embodiment instructions are included for ascertaining an orientation of a portable device as a function of direction information processed by a processor. Instructions are also included for ascertaining a path traversed by the portable device as a function of motion information processed by the processor. The instructions further include instructions for identifying a gesture undergone by the portable device as a function of the orientation and the path. For this embodiment instructions are also included for superimposing digital graffiti corresponding to the gesture onto a digital canvas.

In yet another embodiment a method is described which includes employing a processor to execute computer executable instructions stored on a computer readable storage medium. Within such embodiment the processor facilitates executing various acts including determining an orientation of a portable device as a function of data output by a compass. Further acts executed by the processor include determining a movement undergone by the device as a function of data output by an accelerometer unit and determining a location of the device as a function of data output by a global positioning system GPS unit. For this embodiment gestures corresponding to the device s movements are ascertained as a function of the data output by the compass and the data output by the accelerometer unit. Further acts include selecting a digital canvas as a function of the device s location and superimposing digital graffiti corresponding to the gesture onto the digital canvas.

As discussed in the background among other things current location services systems and services e.g. GPS cell triangulation P2P location service such as Bluetooth WiFi etc. tend to be based on the location of the device only and tend to provide static experiences that are not tailored to a user because the data about endpoints of interest is relatively static. In addition input to engage such static location based services is frustrating at best for portable devices such as cell phones PDAs music players notebooks netbooks etc. For instance input to such devices when the user is on the go has been conventionally limited to error prone input processes e.g. due to limited space which are error prone even when a user is not moving and the device is stationary.

At least partly in consideration of these deficiencies of conventional location based services various embodiments of a portable device are provided that enable users to point a device directionally and receive static and or dynamic information in response from a networked service such as provided by one or more servers or as part of a cloud services experience. Moreover by determining gestured made by the device based on any one or more of direction information motion information or location information input for various scenarios and device contexts are greatly facilitated and can be tailored to context based on the location or given point s of interest pointed at by a pointing device.

In the various alternative embodiments described herein leveraging digital compasses and location services to provide direction and location information enables a next generation of direction or pointer based location search services scan services discoverability services etc. In this regard the digital compass and location information such as GPS can be used to point at objects of interest thus defining the entry point for one or more data transactions or interactions between the device and one or more third party devices providing service s for the object s of interest at which the device is pointed. Using a digital compass e.g. solid state magnetic sun moon based etc. on a mobile endpoint facilitates point and upload scenarios point and synchronize geographical information to a Web service cloud services or another endpoint.

As reflected in various embodiments a device is provided that can hone in on interact with or otherwise transact with a specific object or specific objects of interest by way of location and direction of the device creating a new advertising model not previously known. As an example when a user interacts with a particular product on a shelf at a retail store in connection with a direction based service this creates an opportunity for anyone having an interest in the particular product to engage the user e.g. communicate some information to that user. Any context that can be discerned from the user s actions and interactions can also be taken into account when acting on the opportunity. In this regard a variety of gestures can facilitate these actions and interactions without requiring the complexity of input alluded to in the background.

In this regard with a gesture pre defined or user defined users can interact with the endpoints in a host of context sensitive ways to provide or update information associated with endpoints of interest or to receive beneficial information or instruments e.g. coupons offers etc. from entities associated with the endpoints of interest or according to any of the many non examples described in more detail below.

In one embodiment a portable electronic device comprises a positional component that outputs position information as a function of a location of the portable electronic device a motion component that outputs motion information as a function of movement s of the portable device and a directional component that outputs direction information as a function of an orientation of the portable electronic device. The device is configured to process at least the position information to determine point s of interest relating to the position information and configured to process at least the motion information and the direction information to determine pre defined gesture s undergone by the portable electronic device with respect to the point s of interest wherein the portable electronic device automatically makes a request based on the pre defined gesture s and the point s of interest.

The point s of interest can be determined from the position information and the direction information. The at least one pre defined gesture can be determined from any one or more of the position information the motion information and the direction information. The portable electronic device can automatically make a request based on the gesture s and identifier s associated with the point s of interest. The gesture s can be determined based on a pre defined gesture definition or a user defined gesture definition. A positional component can include a global positioning satellite GPS component for receiving and processing GPS signals or a component for receiving position information based on triangulation to wireless base stations an image recognition system for recognizing at least one object in image data and determining a position of the device relative to the at least one object in the image data or other means for measuring location.

The directional component can include a digital compass and can also include an image recognition system for recognizing an object in real space and determining the direction of the object and therefore the device by detecting the side of the object or detecting the object relative to other objects fixed in real space. The motion component can include accelerometer s for measuring an acceleration of the device. The motion component can include at least two accelerometers for measuring a tilt or rotation of at least part of the device.

In one embodiment a process determines a location of a portable device based on location information determined for the device the location information representing a global position of the device. Direction information representing an orientation of the portable device and the location information are analyzed to determine point s of interest towards which the portable device is substantially oriented. In this regard path information representing a path traversed by the portable device is analyzed based on at least the direction information to determine gesture s made by the portable device. A request is transmitted to a network service based on the gesture s and the point of interest.

The analyzing of path information can include processing acceleration information measuring acceleration of the device processing velocity information measuring velocity of the device analyzing the path information for a given time span or analyzing a set of vectors representing the path traversed by the device from a start time to a stop time. Moreover the analyzing of path information can include analyzing three dimensional 3 D path information representing three degrees of freedom of movement for the device but can also include analyzing three dimensional 3 D path information as 2 D path information by collapsing a degree of freedom.

In another embodiment a method includes determining whether a viewing plane of a portable device is aligned with a substantially horizontal plane that is substantially parallel to a ground plane or aligned with a substantially vertical plane that is substantially orthogonal to the ground plane. If the portable device is aligned with the substantially horizontal plane a topographical map view of a geographical area map determined based on location and direction information measured by the portable device is displayed and indication s of point s of interest on the geographical area map are displayed. If the portable device is aligned with the substantially vertical plane an image based view of three dimensional 3 D space extending at least one pre defined direction from the portable device is displayed and indication s of point s of interest pertaining to the 3 D space represented by the image based view can be displayed.

With the addition of directional information in a location based environment a variety of mobile scanning experiences are enabled on top of user identification of or interaction with specific object s of interest by pointing or gesturing at an object of interest. For instance when a user gestures e.g. points at a particular item at a particular location or place this creates an opportunity for anyone having an interest in that particular item to interact with the user regarding that item or related items at a point at a time when the user s focus is on the particular item. User context for the interaction can also be taken into account to supplement the provision of one or more interactive direction based services.

A gesture subsystem can optionally be included in a device which can be predicated on any one or more of the motion information location information or direction information. In this regard not only can direction information and location information be used to define a set of unique gestures but also motion information such as speed and acceleration can be used to define a more sophisticated set of gestures. In this regard one can appreciate that a variety of algorithms could be adopted for a gesture subsystem. For instance a simple click event when in the pointing mode for the device can result in determining a set of points of interest for the user.

The pointing information however produced according to an underlying set of measurement components and interpreted by a processing engine can be one or more vectors. A vector or set of vectors can have a width or arc associated with the vector for any margin of error associated with the pointing of the device. A panning angle can be defined by a user with at least two pointing actions to encompass a set of points of interest e.g. those that span a certain angle defined by a panning gesture by the user.

In this respect a gesturing component can also be included in the device to determine a current gesture of a user of the portable electronic device from a set of pre defined gestures. For example gestures can include zoom in zoom out panning to define an arc all to help filter over potential subsets of points of interest for the user.

In addition a device includes an algorithm for discerning items substantially along a direction at which the device is pointing and those not substantially along a direction at which the device is pointing. In this respect while motion vector might implicate POI without a specific panning gesture that encompassed more directions vectors POIs would likely not be within the scope of points of interest defined by motion vector. The distance or reach of a vector can also be tuned by a user e.g. via a slider control or other control to quickly expand or contract the scope of endpoints encompassed by a given pointing interaction with the device.

Other gestures that can be of interest in for a gesturing subsystem include recognizing a user s gesture for zoom in or zoom out. Zoom in zoom out can be done in terms of distance. A device pointed in direction may include a zoomed in view which includes points of interest within distance and arc or a medium zoomed view representing points of interest between distance or a zoomed out view representing points of interest beyond distance. These zoom zones correspond to POIs. More or less zones can be considered depending upon a variety of factors the service user preference etc.

For another non limiting example with location information and direction information a user can input a first direction via a click and then a second direction after moving the device via a second click which in effect defines an arc for objects of interest. For instance via first pointing act by the user at time in direction and a second pointing act at time by the user in direction an arc is implicitly defined. The area of interest implicitly includes a search of points of object within a distance which can be zoomed in and out or selected by the service based on a known granularity of interest selected by the user etc. This can be accomplished with a variety of forms of input to define the two directions. For instance the first direction can be defined upon a click and hold button event or other engage and hold user interface element and the second direction can be defined upon release of the button. Similarly two consecutive clicks corresponding to the two different directions can also be implemented.

Also instead of focusing on real distance zooming in or out could also represent a change in terms of granularity or size or hierarchy of objects. For example a first pointing gesture with the device may result in a shopping mall appearing but with another gesture a user could carry out a recognizable gesture to gain or lose a level of hierarchical granularity with the points of interest on display. For instance after such gesture the points of interest could be zoomed in to the level of the stores at the shopping mall and what they are currently offering.

In addition a variety of even richer behaviors and gestures can be recognized when acceleration of the device in various axes can be discerned Panning arm extension retraction swirling of the device backhand tennis swings breaststroke arm action golf swing motions could all signify something unique in terms of the behavior of the pointing device and this is to just name a few motions that could be implemented in practice. Thus any of the embodiments herein can define a set of gestures that serve to help the user interact with a set of services built on the pointing platform to help users easily gain information about points of information in their environment.

Furthermore with relatively accurate upward and downward tilt of the device in addition to directional information such as calibrated and compensated heading directional information other services can be enabled. Typically if a device is ground level the user is outside and the device is pointed up towards the top of buildings the granularity of information about points of interest sought by the user building level is different than if the user was pointing at the first floor shops of the building shops level even where the same compass direction is implicated. Similarly where a user is at the top of a landmark such as the Empire State building a downward tilt at the street level street level granularity would implicate information about different points of interest that if the user of the device pointed with relatively no tilt at the Statue of Liberty landmark building level of granularity .

A device can also include a Hardware Abstraction Layer HAL having components responsible for abstracting the way the client communicates with the measuring instruments e.g. the GPS driver for positioning and LOS accuracy e.g. open eGPS magnetic compass for heading and rotational information e.g. gyroscopic one or more accelerometers for gestured input and tilt achieves 3D positional algorithms assuming gyroscopic compass .

In cooperation with gesture based analysis component and optionally local applications or services or remote services processor s process the position information and or the direction information to determine a set of points of interest relating to the position direction information. Processor s also process the motion information direction information and or position information to determine pre defined gesture s undergone by the portable electronic device with respect to one or more points of interest of the set. In response to the pre defined gesture s the portable electronic device automatically makes a request based on the pre defined gesture s and identifier s associated with the one or more points of interest of the set.

The gesture based analysis component can determine a set of current gesture s based on one or more of the position information such as but not limited to GPS information output from position engine or subsystem the motion information such as but limited to accelerometer information of motion engine or subsystem or the direction information such as digital compass information output from direction engine or subsystem . Gesture based analysis component determines gesture s relative to gesture definitions which can be statically defined on the device defined by the user of the device retrieved from a gesture definition network provider not shown etc. Gesture history coupled with other place and point of interest information can be a rich source for intelligent applications or network services to understand context for a given device gesture based on historical interaction.

Device can include storage for storing any of position information motion information direction information gesture definitions gesture history application information etc. The device can also include a graphics subsystem display and associated user interface for display of information and or for receiving touch screen input. An audio subsystem can also be included for voice or other sound input or sound output in connection with the provision of gesture and pointing based services.

For instance via network interface based on a current gesture an automatic request can be made to network data services based on the gesture and place or point of interest identification. As a result a variety of actions can take place e.g. targeted content advertising offers deals price comparisons etc. Local applications and storage are optional as any of the functionality of providing gesture based services can be pushed to the network data services or conversely functionality of data services can be implemented by a local application .

Referring next to a block diagram illustrates an exemplary portable computing device . In this regard a set of services are built based on motion information location information and or direction information collected by a mobile device such as a phone. For instance in an embodiment location information can be recorded by a location subsystem such as a GPS subsystem communicating with GPS satellites . Direction or pointing information can be collected by a direction subsystem such as a compass e.g. gyroscopic magnetic digital compass etc. In addition movement information can be gathered by the device e.g. via tower triangulation algorithms and or acceleration of the device can be measured as well e.g. with an accelerometer. From any one or more of the motion information location information and or direction information gesture information can be determined by a gesture monitor component .

The collective information can be used to gain a sense of not only where the device is located in relation to other potential points of interest tracked or known by the overall set of services but to also understand in what direction the user is pointing the device . By ascertaining such information the services can appreciate at whom or what the user is pointing the device so as to gain a sense of how the user wishes to interact with the place or point of interest via the gesture information .

In an aspect gesture subsystem utilizes any one or more of the motion information location information and or direction information . In this regard for example not only can direction information and location information be used to define a set of unique gestures but also motion information such as speed and acceleration can be used to define a more sophisticated set of gestures.

Referring next to a flow diagram illustrates an exemplary methodology for superimposing digital graffiti onto a digital canvas. As shown process begins at step where an area proximate to device is scanned to ascertain a desired digital canvas. In an embodiment such a digital canvas may correspond to particular points of interest detected by device . Here one of ordinary skill will appreciate that points of interest are detectable in any of a plurality of ways. For instance in an aspect device includes a scanning component that outputs sensory information pertaining to a signal received from entities proximate to device e.g. restaurants theaters trains mobile devices etc. . Moreover at step the scanning component scans for signals emanating from entities proximate to device and outputs sensory information corresponding to any of a plurality of detected signals. Next at step process determines whether any detectable signals are present. If a signal is indeed present process ascertains at least one digital canvas by processing the sensory information corresponding to the signal. However if no signal is detected process loops back to step where the area proximate to device continues to be scanned.

In another embodiment points of interest proximate to device are identifiable without detecting signals emanating from the points of interest. For instance device may identify such points of interest by utilizing any combination of information from motion component e.g. an accelerometer unit location subsystem e.g. a GPS unit and or directional subsystem e.g. a compass . In an aspect device transmits any combination of motion information location information and or directional information to an external entity via a network for further processing. Here to facilitate interfacing with the external entity via the network a network component may be included in device . Within such embodiment the external entity is a centralized database that stores data corresponding to any of a plurality of identifiable points of interest. Moreover the external entity utilizes information received from device to identify points of interest in the database and subsequently transmits data corresponding to the identified points of interest to device .

When interfacing with a network process may thus include performing step externally wherein an area proximate to device is scanned as a function of motion information location information and or directional information . Next at step process determines whether any points of interest are proximate to device . If no point of interest is identified process loops back to step where the area proximate to device continues to be scanned. However if the external entity indeed identifies a point of interest process ascertains at least one digital canvas corresponding to the point of interest at step . In an aspect the at least one digital canvas is ascertainable from the external entity via the network.

In another embodiment device ascertains a digital canvas independent of a network and or signals emanating from points of interest. For instance in an aspect device includes a camera. Within such embodiment process thus includes having a user manually scan an area proximate to device at step . At step process then includes determining whether an image of the area obtained obtainable by the camera is adequate. If indeed adequate process proceeds by configuring a digital canvas to include the image at step . Otherwise if the image is inadequate process loops back to step where the user continues to scan the area for desirable images.

After ascertaining a digital canvas process continues by selecting a desired graffiti tool at step . As will be discussed later with respect to and device can provide any of a plurality of graffiti tools including an ink graffiti tool and or an object graffiti tool. After selecting the desired graffiti tool a processing of strokes undergone by device occurs at step . Next at step digital graffiti corresponding to such strokes are then superimposed onto the at least one digital canvas previously identified. For instance if utilizing an ink graffiti tool the digital graffiti may include a two dimensional trace of the strokes undergone by device . On the other hand if utilizing an object graffiti tool the digital graffiti may include a saved digital image corresponding to a particular stroke sequence.

After superimposing the digital graffiti onto the digital canvas process continues by determining at step whether the graffiti session is complete. If incomplete process loops back to step where a user is again able to select a graffiti tool. However if the graffiti session is indeed complete process continues to step where the superimposed digital graffiti is saved transmitted.

Referring next to a flow diagram illustrates an exemplary methodology for utilizing an ink graffiti tool according to an embodiment. As stated previously digital graffiti generated via an ink graffiti tool may include a two dimensional tracing of strokes undergone by device . Moreover a user may utilize the ink graffiti tool to create two dimensional freehand images corresponding to an in air path undertaken by device e.g. motioning device in a path that traces letters corresponding to the word hello a path that traces an outline of a happy face etc. . Here although a two dimensional tracing is described it should be appreciated that another embodiment may include a three dimensional tracing of strokes undergone by device wherein the three dimensional tracing is saved as a three dimensional digital graffiti object.

As illustrated process begins at step by selecting the ink graffiti tool. In an embodiment the ink graffiti tool is configurable to output graffiti in any of a plurality of styles. For instance at step a user may configure the ink tool settings to trace a graffiti path with any of a plurality of colors e.g. black blue red etc. patterns e.g. solid dashed dotted etc. and or line thicknesses. Here although a user may manually select the desired ink tool settings device may also include a set of pre programmed default settings set by the user and or the manufacturer .

At step process continues with the processing of strokes undergone by device . In an embodiment device may include a continuity button which a user may utilize to discontinue particular ink strokes within a given graffiti session. With respect to drawing alphanumeric characters such a button is particularly desirable since multiple distinct strokes are often preferred. For instance if a user desires to draw the letter T a first stroke e.g. a stroke that is substantially vertical may be separated from a second stroke e.g. a stroke that is substantially horizontal by releasing the continuity button between the two strokes.

In an embodiment device may also include a beautification component for performing a beautification of graffiti generated by the ink tool. Namely because an exact free hand version of a user s graffiti may be aesthetically undesirable a beautification component may warp replace such undesirable portions of the user s graffiti. For instance the beautification component may analyze data corresponding to the graffiti generated at step e.g. an image of the graffiti temporal sequential information about the strokes etc. to identify infer portions to modify e.g. identifying inferring that the user drew a happy face and replacing the free hand version with a computerized version . Accordingly process may include a determination at step of whether to beautify portions of the user s graffiti. If beautification is indeed desired and possible process proceeds with a beautification of the user s graffiti at step followed by a superimposition of the beautified graffiti onto an appropriate digital canvas at step . However if at step it is determined that a beautification will not occur process proceeds directly to step where the user s un beautified graffiti is superimposed onto an appropriate digital canvas.

Referring next to a flow diagram illustrates an exemplary methodology for utilizing an object graffiti tool according to an embodiment. As stated previously digital graffiti generated via an object graffiti tool may include a saved digital image corresponding to a particular stroke sequence undergone by device . Moreover a user may utilize the object graffiti tool as a short cut to access any of a plurality of images stored either locally or externally e.g. a generic happy face image stored locally a photo stored on a device accessible via a network etc. .

As illustrated process begins at step by selecting the object graffiti tool. In an embodiment the object graffiti tool may have access to any of a plurality of gesture libraries wherein the same gesture may output a different image in a different library. For instance in a first library a circular gesture may correspond to a happy face image whereas the same circular gesture may correspond to a particular photo in a second library. Accordingly process includes ascertaining an appropriate gesture library at step .

Process then continues at step with a processing of the gesture strokes undergone by device . Here as discussed with respect to process device may include a continuity button which a user may utilize to discontinue particular strokes of a gesture. Indeed since more gestures are definable with multiple distinct strokes than with single continuous strokes including a continuity button to device desirably increases the number of images accessible to the object tool.

At step process proceeds by retrieving the image corresponding to the gesture performed by device . Here as stated previously such an image may reside in a gesture library either within device and or within an external entity accessible via a network. Upon retrieving the desired image process proceeds by superimposing the image onto an appropriate digital canvas at step .

Referring next to a block diagram of a device illustrates an exemplary embodiment of a variety of gesture based actions that device may undertake. Within such embodiment these actions are based on any of point of interest information location information motion information gesture information or other user intent information brokered by the device to network services via networks and optionally via applications .

More specifically illustrates that a variety of pre defined gestures can be designed to represent gestures in a general environment having items or points of interest or locations that can be pointed at or to by a device . As illustrated such gestures may include a gesture requesting to analyze the image content of a viewfinder for context as well as gestures to show particular POIs i.e. different gestures for different types of categories . In an aspect device may also undertake a Wikipedia gesture e.g. to bring up Wikipedia knowledge regarding the given POI based on an associated keyword as well as an hours gesture e.g. to bring up current status and or when the POI maintains business hours . Other exemplary gestures that device may undertake include a gesture to request information about a POI e.g. to request an address phone fax website etc. a gesture to request directions to a POI and a gesture to retrieve events discounts and or advertising associated with a POI .

In a block diagram provides a non limiting implementation for a point to location user interface for a device . In an embodiment the point to location user interface includes an image section e.g. input from a camera included with the device wherein various POIs etc. in the scene are identifiable. For instance overlay information and actions can be displayed over or near the POIs respectively exemplary non limiting locations for overlay shown . Filter UI allows a user of the device to filter the kinds or types of POIs within the image section . A gesture or other explicit input can also define the scope of POIs shown in the image section e.g. the scope of POIs in terms of distance from the device .

In an aspect UI displays a scope of points of interest according to a user defined scope definition in which the user selects a degree of scope ranging between near and far . Similarly device may include an elevation scope implementation to capture towering POIs e.g. buildings mountains lighthouses etc. . For this particular example POI is far whereas POI is near and so depending on how the gesture or input is made one or the other POI may be selected based on the scope of POIs. In one embodiment a tilt gesture achieves the desired effect. For instance tilting the viewfinder of a camera up may extend the scope outwards whereas tilting toward the ground may retract the scope inwards. A user may also pre define unique gestures via a gesture definition application that helps users customize gestures.

Referring next to a block diagram provides a non limiting implementation for a point to people user interface for a device . In this regard user interface includes an image section e.g. camera input whereby a first person of interest and second person of interest are illustrated for simplicity of example in a crowd of people. Here again a filter UI is used to sort categories and a scope definition UI is used to help define the scope of physical space encompassed by the POI discovery. In the present example a gesture towards a given person could initiate an action or interaction in relation to that user. In so doing a selection of a person of interest such as person of interest results in a display of overlay information and actions over or nearby the selected person of interest.

Upon selecting a person a user can initiate various actions by performing any of a plurality of pre defined or user defined gestures. For instance a user may initiate a look through viewfinder for context application by performing gesture a discover friends or other desired subscribers application by performing gesture a call person application by performing gesture a start message application by performing gesture a view person s website application by performing gesture e.g. Facebook MySpace Twitter an add person to contact list application by performing gesture e.g. Friends Family Favorites a find out schedule availability application by performing gesture and or a friend or flirt application by performing gesture e.g. make a heart shape in 2 D with the device with respect to a person .

One of ordinary skill will appreciate that a user may create digital graffiti of various styles and forms. One of ordinary skill will also appreciate that the subsequent superimposition of such digital graffiti onto a digital canvas can include any of various types of digital canvasses. To facilitate a better understanding of the numerous potential digital graffiti implementations the following discussion describes various non limiting embodiments illustrating exemplary combinations of different forms of digital graffiti and different types of digital canvasses.

Referring first to exemplary implementations include digital graffiti created within the context of a restaurant scenario. For instance illustrates an exemplary superimposition of free hand digital graffiti onto a photographic digital canvas of a restaurant. Within such embodiment a user may point the device towards an area that includes a particular restaurant wherein the device displays the restaurant as a point of interest within the device s display . As stated previously point of interest is ascertainable in any of a plurality of ways. For example ascertaining point of interest may result from the device sensing a signal emanating from the restaurant and or processing device specific information e.g. any combination of the device s direction information motion information and position information .

In various embodiments a derivation of photographic digital canvas utilizes a photo originating from any of a plurality of locations. For instance in a first embodiment digital canvas may originate from a photo provided by the restaurant wherein the device receives the digital canvas directly from a signal emanating from the restaurant. In another embodiment digital canvas originates from an external entity accessible via a network. In yet another embodiment a user may simply take a photo of the restaurant wherein the photo itself serves as digital canvas .

As stated previously a user may utilize any of various tools to create digital graffiti. For instance an unsatisfied customer of the restaurant may utilize an ink graffiti tool to superimpose the word DIRTY as free hand graffiti onto digital canvas as shown in . illustrates an exemplary beautification of free hand graffiti wherein the device superimposes beautification onto digital canvas .

In another embodiment a user may utilize an object graffiti tool to retrieve any of a plurality of generic images stored either locally or externally. Moreover a user may access generic images stored within an internal external library by performing particular gestures. For instance as illustrated in the customer may superimpose a generic image of a sad face onto digital canvas . To retrieve generic image the user may have to perform a particular library specific gesture corresponding to generic image . For example as shown in such a gesture may include a first stroke in a substantially southeast direction followed by a second stroke in a substantially southwest direction. Here as stated previously a user may utilize a continuity button to provide a path break between stroke and stroke .

In yet another embodiment a user may utilize the object graffiti tool to retrieve any of a plurality of customized images which are also stored either locally or externally. for example exemplifies a scenario whereby a health inspector visits an unsanitary restaurant. In this scenario it may be desirable for the health inspector to generate graffiti that is unique and readily distinguishable from graffiti generated by other users. To facilitate generating such graffiti the health inspector may be given secure access to a library of authenticated images e.g. images with an official seal wherein each image is retrievable via a unique gesture. For instance retrieving graffiti corresponding to an authenticated UNHEALTHY assessment by the health inspector may require performing a unique gesture that superimposes graffiti onto digital canvas . As illustrated such unique gesture may include a first stroke in a substantially southeast direction followed by a second stroke in a substantially southwest direction. Here although strokes and are essentially the same as strokes and the respective outputs from these gestures are differentiable if different libraries are used. For example whereas strokes and may correspond to a sad face stored locally strokes and may correspond to an official sealed assessment stored externally on a secure site.

In an aspect a user may save and or transmit graffiti and or . Here one of ordinary skill will appreciate that such graffiti can be saved and or transmitted with or without a particular digital canvas. Indeed because it may sometimes be desirable to superimpose graffiti onto different digital canvasses a user may wish to save such graffiti without a particular canvas. One of ordinary skill will further appreciate that saved graffiti may also include metadata for the graffiti e.g. authorship information date of creation hyperlink to user s website audio etc. .

Referring next to exemplary implementations include superimposing digital graffiti onto a digital canvas corresponding to a mobile object. For instance illustrates an exemplary superimposition of free hand digital graffiti onto a photographic digital canvas of a train. Within such embodiment a user may point the device towards an area that includes the train wherein the device displays the train as a point of interest within the device s display . For this particular example similar to the aforementioned restaurant example ascertaining point of interest may result from the device sensing a signal emanating from the train and or processing device specific information e.g. any combination of the device s direction information motion information and position information .

In an aspect photographic digital canvas is a shared canvas upon which any of a plurality of users may view and or superimpose graffiti. For instance a user s device may receive digital canvas either directly from a signal emanating from the train and or from a network entity that processes any combination of the device s location information motion information and or direction information wherein digital canvas already includes graffiti generated by a previous user. Accordingly graffiti superimposed onto digital canvas may comprise an evolving collage of individual graffiti entries from different users. This collage of graffiti entries may thus follow the train wherever it goes wherein the parameters of each graffiti entry may be managed by the canvas owner administrator. For example to ensure that graffiti space is always available a city may configure digital canvas such that individual graffiti entries vanish after a pre determined span of time and such that no entry exceeds a pre determined dimensional threshold.

As stated previously a user may again utilize any of various tools to create digital graffiti. For instance an anti war activist may utilize an ink graffiti tool to superimpose the phrase STOP THE WAR as free hand graffiti onto digital canvas as shown in . illustrates an exemplary beautification of free hand graffiti wherein the device superimposes beautification onto digital canvas . In an aspect a user may toggle between any of a plurality of different fonts when utilizing the beautification feature i.e. the font shown for beautification is interchangeable with other fonts .

As illustrated in a user may also utilize an object graffiti tool to retrieve any of a plurality of generic images. For this particular example the anti war activist may superimpose a generic image of a peace sign onto digital canvas . Within such embodiment a user may retrieve generic image by performing a particular library specific gesture corresponding to generic image . For example as shown in such a gesture may include a first stroke in a substantially counterclockwise direction followed by a second stroke directed substantially downwards.

Referring next to an exemplary illustration demonstrates how a user may utilize the object graffiti tool to retrieve a customized image. Here prior to seeing a train the anti war activist may have already saved graffiti onto the network or his her device. For instance the anti war activist may have spent a substantial amount of time developing graffiti at home with tools that are perhaps unavailable on the device. It should thus be appreciated that digital graffiti as described herein is not restricted to sensor based graffiti generation. Here for example graffiti may take the form of a personalized banner created on a PC i.e. independent of the sensor based electronics of the mobile device in which people leave comments notes on that can either be discovered broadly or just shared amongst friends.

Once developed the user might transfer graffiti onto a personal library on the device wherein a unique gesture superimposes graffiti onto digital canvas . For this particular embodiment the unique gesture corresponds to a single continuous stroke comprising two sub strokes and i.e. no break between sub strokes facilitated by a continuity button . Moreover as illustrated the unique gesture includes a first sub stroke in a substantially southeast direction followed by a second sub stroke in a substantially northeast direction.

Referring next to exemplary implementations include digital graffiti for interacting with people in a social setting. For instance illustrates an exemplary superimposition of free hand graffiti onto a canvas corresponding to a target person s digital profile. To facilitate launching canvas a user may point the device towards an area that includes a plurality of accessible people i.e. people with identifiable devices and inaccessible people i.e. people without identifiable devices . Here as illustrated the device may display any of accessible people as the target person within the device s display . Similar to the aforementioned examples ascertaining point of interest may result from the device sensing a signal emanating from the target person s device and or processing information specific to the user s device e.g. any combination of direction information motion information and position information from the user device .

For this particular embodiment a graffiti area is included within canvas . To this end one of ordinary skill will appreciate that the derivation of digital canvas may occur in any of a plurality of locations. For instance in a first embodiment a user s device generates canvas upon receiving a target person s profile directly from the target person s device. In another embodiment a target person s device generates digital canvas and emanates a signal that includes canvas to an area proximate to the target person s device. In yet another embodiment an external entity accessible via a network stores a plurality of digital profiles and subsequently generates an appropriate canvas for a selected target person upon request e.g. a digital profile from a social networking website .

In an exemplary scenario a user may wish to initiate a conversation with a target person. To facilitate such conversation the user may create digital graffiti with an ink graffiti tool. For instance a user may utilize the ink graffiti tool to superimpose the word HELLO as free hand graffiti onto graffiti area as shown in . illustrates an exemplary beautification of graffiti wherein canvas includes beautification superimposed on graffiti area .

In a related scenario a user may wish to flirt with a target person. To facilitate such flirtation the user may create digital graffiti with an object graffiti tool as illustrated in . For this particular example the user may superimpose a generic image of a kiss onto graffiti area of digital canvas . Within such embodiment the user may retrieve generic image by performing a particular library specific gesture corresponding to generic image . For example as shown in such a gesture may include a first stroke in a substantially upward direction followed by a second stroke also directed substantially upwards.

Referring next to an exemplary illustration demonstrates how a user may utilize the object graffiti tool to retrieve a customized image. For this particular example customized image includes a photo of the user surrounded with hearts as shown. Here the user might retrieve image from either a personal library on the user s device or an external library on a network wherein a unique gesture superimposes image onto area of canvas . For this particular embodiment the unique gesture includes a first stroke in a substantially counterclockwise direction followed by a second stroke directed in a substantially clockwise direction.

Referring next to exemplary implementations include digital graffiti created within the context of purchasing real estate. For instance illustrates an exemplary superimposition of free hand graffiti onto a canvas corresponding to a particular real estate property. To facilitate launching canvas a user may point the device towards a group of houses that includes a particular house of interest displayed within the device s display .

One of ordinary skill will appreciate that the prospective buyer s device may identify house of interest in any of a plurality of ways. For instance in an embodiment a real estate agent may embed a transmitter that emanates identifiable information within house of interest . For such embodiment the prospective buyer s device may sense the emanated signal to identify house of interest . In another embodiment rather than embedding house of interest with a transmitter the prospective buyer s device identifies house of interest as function of the device s direction information motion information and or position information.

In an aspect canvas is again ascertainable in any of plurality of ways wherein graffiti area may be included as shown. In a first embodiment a prospective buyer s device generates canvas upon receiving purchase information via the embedded transmitter. In another embodiment the embedded transmitter emanates a signal that includes canvas to an area proximate to house of interest . In yet another embodiment a centralized website may store a plurality of profiles for available properties wherein the prospective buyer s device receives an appropriate canvas from the website upon request e.g. a digital profile from a multiple listings service website .

In an exemplary scenario a user may wish to know the asking price for house of interest . To facilitate such a query the user may create digital graffiti with an ink graffiti tool. For instance a user may utilize the ink graffiti tool to superimpose the phrase COST as free hand graffiti onto graffiti area as shown in . illustrates an exemplary beautification of graffiti wherein canvas includes beautification superimposed on graffiti area .

However the prospective buyer may create digital graffiti with an object graffiti tool as illustrated in . For this particular example the prospective buyer may superimpose a generic image which displays onto graffiti area of canvas . Indeed within such embodiment a shortcut gesture corresponding to generic image may desirably provide the prospective buyer with a convenient alternative to performing a more tedious gesture with the ink graffiti tool. For example as shown in such a gesture may include a first stroke in a substantially downward direction followed by a second stroke also directed substantially downwards.

Referring next to an exemplary illustration demonstrates how the prospective buyer may utilize the object graffiti tool to retrieve a customized image. For this particular example customized image includes text specifying particular buyer defined conditions i.e. a request to only contact if the asking price is below 400 000 and only if the home is equipped with central air heat . Similar to the aforementioned examples the prospective buyer might retrieve image from either a personal library on the prospective buyer s device or an external library on a network wherein a unique gesture superimposes image onto area of canvas . For this particular embodiment the unique gesture includes a first stroke in a substantially downward direction followed by a second stroke directed in a substantially upward direction.

It may sometimes be desirable to superimpose graffiti onto multiple canvasses. For instance with respect to the real estate example above it may be desirable make inquiries into multiple properties simultaneously. In an exemplary diagram for facilitating such an inquiry illustrates a plurality of points of interest proximate to a device. Specifically illustrates a device surrounded by houses of interest within a first radius R houses of interest within a second radius R and houses of interest within a third radius R. To this end an exemplary scenario is contemplated wherein the prospective buyer fortuitously visits a desirable neighborhood and wishes to ascertain real estate information for all available properties within a particular radius. As illustrated in an inquiry into multiple properties may include simultaneously superimposing graffiti onto multiple corresponding canvasses. For this particular example the prospective buyer s device may superimpose graffiti onto a graffiti area wherein a first canvas corresponds to a first property and wherein additional canvasses correspond to additional properties within the selected radius of the prospective buyer s device. Here as illustrated the prospective buyer may again utilize an object graffiti tool to create the custom graffiti discussed in .

In an aspect a device provides the user with different functions views for facilitating graffiti generation according to the device s orientation. For instance in a flow diagram illustrates an exemplary non limiting process that anticipates that a user will hold a device substantially in a horizontal plane such as in the palm of the user s hand while viewing the device. At step a map on display is oriented according to a direction relative to the device based on pointing information. Next at step the device displays place s or item s of interest on the map according to an indication of type of place or item. At step the place s or item s are then filtered e.g. to show only nearby tourist sites . At as the device turns the map continuously updates and re orients based on any new direction the device points at in order to maintain proper direction relative to real space. The process proceeds with a selection of a place or item on the map at step followed by the superimposition of digital graffiti on a digital canvas corresponding to the selected place or item at step . In this regard because it is intuitive to give a ground view when the viewing plane is parallel to the ground plane in the present embodiment the device implements a 2 D map view when held substantially in the horizontal plane.

Referring next to a flow diagram illustrates an exemplary non limiting process that anticipates that a user will hold a device substantially in a vertical plane e.g. as if scanning an area in a camera viewfinder with overlay information and actions introduced to give the viewfinder context for POI action . In an aspect the device utilizes motion information to ascertain when the device is substantially in a vertical plane at step wherein the device subsequently displays camera imagery with an overlay of a point of interest indication or information. At step the device provides distance indications to scope the points of interest on display e.g. close near or far items .

Next at step the process proceeds with the device displaying information about a selected point of interest as an overlay over the image followed by the superimposition of digital graffiti on a digital canvas corresponding to the selected place or item at step . In this regard because it is intuitive to give a 3 D perspective view when the viewing plane is orthogonal to the ground plane the present embodiment displays a 3 D perspective view with POI information overlay when the device is substantially in the vertical plane. In effect the camera shows the real space behind the device and indications of points of interest in that space as if the user was performing a scan of his or her surroundings with the device. Direction information of the device enables data and network services to know what the scope of objects for interaction with the device is.

The following description contains supplemental context regarding potential non limiting pointing devices architectures and associated services to further aid in understanding one or more of the above embodiments. Any one or more of any additional features described in this section can be accommodated in any one or more of the embodiments described above with respect to direction based services at a particular location. While such combinations of embodiments or features are possible for the avoidance of doubt no embodiments set forth in the subject disclosure should be considered limiting on any other embodiments described herein.

As mentioned a broad range of scenarios can be enabled by a device that can take location and direction information about the device and build a service on top of that information. For example by effectively using an accelerometer in coordination with an on board digital compass an application running on a mobile device updates what each endpoint is looking at or pointing towards attempting hit detection on potential points of interest to either produce real time information for the device or to allow the user to select a range or using the GPS a location on a map and set information such as Starbucks 10 off cappuccinos today or The Alamo site of . . . for others to discover. One or more accelerometers can also be used to perform the function of determining direction information for each endpoint as well. As described herein these techniques can become more granular to particular items within a Starbucks such as blueberry cheesecake on display in the counter enabling a new type of graffiti interaction.

Accordingly a general device for accomplishing this includes a processing engine to resolve a line of sight vector sent from a mobile endpoint and a system to aggregate that data as a platform enabling a host of new scenarios predicated on the pointing information known for the device. The act of pointing with a device such as the user s mobile phone thus becomes a powerful vehicle for users to discover and interact with points of interest around the individual in a way that is tailored for the individual. Synchronization of data can also be performed to facilitate roaming and sharing of POV data and contacts among different users of the same service.

In a variety of embodiments described herein 2 dimensional 2D 3 dimensional 3D or N dimensional directional based search discovery and interactivity services are enabled for endpoints in the system of potential interest to the user.

In this regard the pointing information and corresponding algorithms ultimately depend upon the assets available in a device for producing the pointing or directional information. The pointing information however produced according to an underlying set of measurement components and interpreted by a processing engine can be one or more vectors. A vector or set of vectors can have a width or arc associated with the vector for any margin of error associated with the pointing of the device. A panning angle can be defined by a user with at least two pointing actions to encompass a set of points of interest e.g. those that span a certain angle defined by a panning gesture by the user .

In this respect a device can include a variety of spatial and map components and intelligence to determine intersections for directional arcs. For instance objects of interest could be represented with exact boundaries approximated with spheres sub shells e.g. stores in a mall of a greater shell e.g. a mall hierarchically arranged etc. Dynamically generated bounding boxes can also be implemented i.e. any technique can be used to obtain boundary information for use in an intersection algorithm . Thus such boundaries can be implicitly or explicitly defined for the POIs.

A device can also include an intersection component that interprets pointing information relative to a set of potential points of interest. The engine can perform such intersections knowing what the resolution of the measuring instruments are on the device such as a given resolution of a GPS system. Such techniques can include taking into account how far a user is from a plane of objects of interest such as items on a shelf or wall the size of the item of interest and how that is defined as well as the resolution of location instrumentation such as the GPS system. The device can also optionally include an altimeter or any other device that gives altitude information such as measuring radar or sonar bounce from the floor. The altitude information can supplement existing location information for certain specialized services where points of interest vary significantly at different altitudes. It is noted that a GPS system itself has some information about altitude in its encoding.

In a non limiting embodiment a portable electronic device includes a positional component for receiving positional information as a function of a location of the portable electronic device a directional component that outputs direction information as a function of an orientation of the portable electronic device and a location based engine. Within such embodiment the location based engine processes the positional information and the direction information to determine a subset of points of interest relative to the portable electronic device as a function of at least the positional information and the direction information.

The positional component can be a positional GPS component for receiving GPS data as the positional information. The directional component can be a magnetic compass and or a gyroscopic compass that outputs the direction information. The device can include acceleration component s such as accelerometer s that outputs acceleration information associated with movement of the portable electronic device. The use of a separate sensor can also be used to further compensate for tilt and altitude adjustment calculations.

In one embodiment the device includes a cache memory for dynamically storing a subset of endpoints of interest that are relevant to the portable electronic device and at least one interface to a network service for transmitting the positional information and the direction information to the network service. In return based on real time changes to the positional information and direction pointing information the device dynamically receives in the cache memory an updated subset of endpoints that are potentially relevant to the portable electronic device.

For instance the subset of endpoints can be updated as a function of endpoints of interest within a pre defined distance substantially along a vector defined by the orientation of the portable electronic device. Alternatively or in addition the subset of endpoints can be updated as a function of endpoints of interest relevant to a current context of the portable electronic device. In this regard the device can include a set of Representational State Transfer REST based application programming interfaces APIs or other stateless set of APIs so that the device can communicate with the service over different networks e.g. Wi Fi a GPRS network etc. or communicate with other users of the service e.g. Bluetooth . For the avoidance of doubt the embodiments are in no way limited to a REST based implementation but rather any other state or stateful protocol could be used to obtain information from the service to the devices.

The directional component outputs direction information including compass information based on calibrated and compensated heading directionality information. The directional component can also include direction information indicating upward or downward tilt information associated with a current upward or downward tilt of the portable electronic device so that the services can detect when a user is pointing upwards or downwards with the device in addition to a certain direction. The height of the vectors themselves can also be taken into account to distinguish between pointing a device from the top of a building likely pointing to other buildings bridges landmarks etc. and pointing the device from the bottom of the building likely pointing to a shop at ground level . Other distinctions can be made between pointing towards a ceiling or floor to differentiate among shelves in a supermarket. A 3 axis magnetic field sensor can also be used to implement a compass to obtain tilt readings.

Secondary sensors such as altimeters or pressure readers can also be included in a mobile device and used to detect a height of the device e.g. what floor a device is on in a parking lot or floor of a department store changing the associated map floorplan data . Where a device includes a compass with a planar view of the world e.g. a 2 axis compass the inclusion of one or more accelerometers in the device can be used to supplement the motion vector measured for a device as a virtual third component of the motion vector e.g. to provide measurements regarding a third degree of freedom . This option is deployable where the provision of a 3 axis compass is too expensive or otherwise unavailable.

In this respect a gesturing component can also be included in the device to determine a current gesture of a user of the portable electronic device from a set of pre defined gestures. For example gestures can include zoom in zoom out panning to define an arc all to help filter over potential subsets of points of interest for the user.

For instance web services can effectively resolve vector coordinates sent from mobile endpoints into or other coordinates using location data such as GPS data as well as configurable synchronized POV information similar to that found in a GPS system in an automobile. In this regard any of the embodiments can be applied similarly in any motor vehicle device. One non limiting use is also facilitation of endpoint discovery for synchronization of data of interest to or from the user from or to the endpoint.

Among other algorithms for interpreting position motion direction information as shown in a device employing the direction based location based services as described herein in a variety of embodiments herein include a way to discern between near objects such as POI and far objects such as POI . Depending on the context of usage the time the user s history the device state the speed of the device the nature of the POIs etc. the service can determine a general distance associated with a motion vector. Thus a motion vector will implicate POI but not POI and the opposite would be true for motion vector .

In addition a device includes an algorithm for discerning items substantially along a direction at which the device is pointing and those not substantially along a direction at which the device is pointing. In this respect while motion vector might implicate POI without a specific panning gesture that encompassed more directions vectors POIs and would likely not be within the scope of points of interest defined by motion vector . The distance or reach of a vector can also be tuned by a user e.g. via a slider control or other control to quickly expand or contract the scope of endpoints encompassed by a given pointing interaction with the device.

In one non limiting embodiment the determination of at what or whom the user is pointing is performed by calculating an absolute Look vector within a suitable margin of error by a reading from an accelerometer s tilt and a reading from the magnetic compass. Then an intersection of endpoints determines an initial scope which can be further refined depending on the particular service employed i.e. any additional filter . For instance for an apartment search service endpoints falling within the look vector that are not apartments ready for lease can be pre filtered.

In addition to the look vector determination the engine can also compensate for or begin the look vector where the user is by establishing positioning 15 feet through an A GPS stack or other location based or GPS subsystem including those with assistance strategies and also compensate for any significant movement acceleration of the device where such information is available.

As mentioned in another aspect a device can include a client side cache of potentially relevant points of interest which based on the user s movement history can be dynamically updated. The context such as geography speed etc. of the user can be included in the updating calculation. For instance if a user s velocity is two miles per hour the user may be walking and interested in updates at a city block by city block level or at a lower level granularity if they are walking in the countryside. Similarly if a user is moving on a highway at sixty miles per hour the block by block updates of information are no longer desirable but rather a granularity can be provided and predictively cached on the device in a manner appropriate for the speed of the vehicle.

In an automobile context the location becomes the road on which the automobile is travelling and the particular items are the places and things that are passed on the roadside much like products in a particular retail store on a shelf or in a display. The pointing based services thus create a virtual billboard opportunity for items of interest generally along a user s automobile path. Proximity to location can lead to an impulse buy e.g. a user might stop by a museum they are passing and pointing at with their device if offered a discount on admission.

In various alternative embodiments gyroscopic or magnetic compasses can provide directional information. A REST based architecture enables data communications to occur over different networks such as Wi Fi and GPRS architectures. REST based APIs can be used though any stateless messaging can be used that does not require a long keep alive for communicated data messages. This way since networks can go down with GPRS antennae seamless switching can occur to Wi Fi or Bluetooth networks to continue according to the pointing based services enabled by the embodiments described herein.

A device as provided herein according to one or more embodiments can include a file system to interact with a local cache store updates for synchronization to the service exchange information by Bluetooth with other users of the service etc. Accordingly when operating from a local cache at least the data in the local cache is still relevant at a time of disconnection and thus the user can still interact with the data. Finally the device can synchronize according to any updates made at a time of re connection to a network or to another device that has more up to date GPS data POI data etc. In this regard a switching architecture is adoptable for the device to perform a quick transition from connectivity from one networked system e.g. cell phone towers to another computer network e.g. Wi Fi to a local network e.g. mesh network of Bluetooth connected devices .

With respect to user input a set of soft keys touch keys etc. can be provided to facilitate in the directional based pointing services provided herein. A device can include a windowing stack in order to overlay different windows or provide different windows of information regarding a point of interest e.g. hours and phone number window versus interactive customer feedback window . Audio can also be rendered or handled as input by the device. For instance voice input can be handled by the service to explicitly point without the need for a physical movement of the device. For instance a user could say into a device what is this product right in front of me No not that one the one above it and have the device transmit current direction movement information to a service which in turn intelligently or iteratively determines what particular item of interest the user is pointing at and returns a host of relevant information about the item.

Other gestures that can be of interest for a gesturing subsystem include recognizing a user s gesture for zoom in or zoom out. Zoom in zoom out can be performed in terms of distance like . In a device pointed in direction D1 may include a zoomed in view which includes points of interest within distance and arc or a medium zoomed view representing points of interest between distance and or a zoomed out view representing points of interest beyond distance . These zoom zones correspond to POIs and respectively. More or fewer zones can be considered depending upon a variety of factors e.g. the service user preference etc. .

In another non limiting example with location information and direction information a user can input a first direction via a click and then a second direction after moving the device via a second click which in effect defines an arc for objects of interest in the system such as objects as illustrated in . For instance via a first pointing act by the user at time t1 in direction D1 and a second pointing act at time t2 by the user in direction D2 an arc is implicitly defined. The area of interest implicitly includes a search of objects of interest within a distance which can be zoomed in and out or selected by the service based on a known granularity of interest selected by the user etc. This can be accomplished with a variety of forms of input to define the two directions. For instance the first direction can be defined upon a click and hold button event or other engage and hold user interface element and the second direction can be defined upon release of the button. Similarly two consecutive clicks corresponding to the two different directions D1 and D2 can also be implemented. In the example POI is encompassed by the arc defined by the gesture.

Also instead of focusing on real distance zooming in or out could also represent a change in terms of granularity or size or hierarchy of objects. For example a first pointing gesture with the device may result in a shopping mall appearing but with another gesture a user could carry out a recognizable gesture to gain or lose a level of hierarchical granularity with the points of interest on display. For instance after such gesture the points of interest could be zoomed in to the level of the stores at the shopping mall and what they are currently offering.

In addition a variety of even richer behaviors and gestures can be recognized when acceleration of the device in various axes can be discerned. Panning arm extension retraction swirling of the device backhand tennis swings breaststroke arm action golf swing motions could all signify something unique in terms of the behavior of the pointing device and this is to just name a few motions that could be implemented in practice. Thus any of the embodiments herein can define a set of gestures that serve to help the user interact with a set of services built on the pointing platform to help users easily gain information about points of information in their environment and to help users generate and superimpose graffiti.

Furthermore with relatively accurate upward and downward tilt of the device in addition to directional information such as calibrated and compensated heading directional information other services can be enabled. Typically if a device is at ground level the user is outside and the device is pointed up towards the top of buildings. Here the granularity of information about points of interest sought by the user e.g. building level is different than if the user was pointing at the first floor shops of the building e.g. shops level even where the same compass direction is implicated. Similarly where a user is at the top of a landmark such as the Empire State building a downward tilt at the street level street level granularity would implicate information about different points of interest that if the user of the device pointed with relatively no tilt at the Statue of Liberty landmark building level of granularity .

Also when a device is moving in a car it may appear that direction is changing as the user maintains a pointing action on a single location but the user is still pointing at the same thing due to displacement. Thus time varying location can be factored into the mathematics and engine of resolving at what the user is pointing with the device to compensate for the user experience.

Accordingly armed with the device s position one or more web or cloud services can analyze the vector information to determine at what or whom the user is looking pointing. The service can then provide additional information such as ads specials updates menus happy hour choices etc. depending on the endpoint selected the context of the service the location urban or rural the time night or day etc. As a result instead of a blank Internet search without context a form of real time visual search for users in real 3 D environments is provided.

In one non limiting embodiment the direction based pointing services are implemented in connection with a pair of glasses headband etc. having a corresponding display means that acts in concert with the user s looking to highlight or overlay features of interest around the user.

As shown in once a set of objects is determined from the pointing information according to a variety of contexts of a variety of services a mobile device can display the objects via representation according to a variety of user experiences tailored to the service at issue. For instance a virtual camera experience can be provided where POI graphics or information can be positioned relative to one another to simulate an imaging experience. A variety of other user interface experiences can be provided based on the pointing direction as well.

For instance a set of different choices are shown in wherein UI and illustrate an exemplary navigation of hierarchical POI information. For instance level1 categories may include category1 category2 category3 category4 and category5 such that a user selects around the categories with a thumb wheel up down control or the like and chooses one such as category2. Then subcategory1 subcategory2 subcategory3 and subcategory4 are displayed as subcategories of category2. Then if the user selects for instance subcategory4 perhaps few enough POIs such as buildings and are found in the subcategory in order to display on a 2D map UI along the pointing direction or alternatively as a 3D virtual map view along the pointing direction.

When things change from the perspective of either the service or the client a synchronization process can bring either the client or service respectively up to date. In this way an ecosystem is enabled where a user can point at an object or point of interest gain information about it that is likely to be relevant to the user interact with the information concerning the point of interest and add value to the services ecosystem where the user interacts. The system thus advantageously supports both static and dynamic content.

Other user interfaces can be considered such as left right or up down arrangements for navigating categories or a special set of soft keys can be adaptively provided.

Where a device includes a camera in one embodiment shown in a representative non limiting overlay UI is shown having three POIs POI1 POI2 and POI3. The POIs are overlaid over actual image data being viewed in real time on the device via an LCD screen or like display. The actual image data can be of products on a shelf or other display or exhibit in a store. Thus as the user aims the camera around his or her environment the lens becomes the pointer and the POI information can be overlaid intelligently for discovery of endpoints of interest. Moreover a similar embodiment can be imagined even without a camera such as a UI in which 3 D objects are virtually represented based on real geometries known for the objects relative to the user. Thus the device UI can be implemented consistent with a camera or virtual camera view for intuitive use of such devices. The pointer mechanism of the device could also switch based on whether the user was currently in live view mode for the camera or not. Moreover assuming sufficient processing power and storage real time image processing could discern an object of interest and based on image signatures overlay POI information over such image in a similar manner to the above embodiments. In this regard with the device provided herein a variety of gestures can be employed to zoom in zoom out perform tilt detection for looking down or up or panning across a field of view to obtain a range of POIs associated with the panning scope.

With respect to a representative set of user settings a number or maximum number of desired endpoints delivered as results can be configured. How to filter can also be configured e.g. five most likely five closest five closest to one hundred feet away five within category or sub category alphabetical order etc. . In each case based on a pointing direction implicitly a cone or other cross section across physical space is defined as a scope of possible points of interest. In this regard the width or deepness of this cone or cross section can be configurable by the user to control the accuracy of the pointing e.g. narrow or wide radius of points and how far out to search .

To support processing of vector information and aggregating POI databases from third parties a variety of storage techniques such as relational storage techniques can be used. For instance Virtual Earth data can be used for mapping and aggregation of POI data can occur from third parties such as Tele Atlas NavTeq etc. In this regard businesses not in the POI database will want to be discovered and thus the service provides a similar but far superior from a spatial relevance standpoint Yellow Pages experiences where businesses will desire to have their additional information such as menus price sheets coupons pictures virtual tours etc. accessible via the system.

In addition a synchronization platform or framework can keep the roaming caches in sync thereby capturing what users are looking at and efficiently processing changes. Or where a user goes offline local changes can be recorded and when the user goes back online such local changes can be synchronized to the network or service store. Also since the users are in effect pulling information they care about in the here and in the now through the act of pointing with the device the system generates high cost per impression CPM rates as compared to other forms of demographic targeting. Moreover the system drives impulse buys since the user may not be physically present in a store but the user may be near the object and by being nearby and pointing at the store information about a sale concerning the object can be sent to the user.

In an aspect different location subsystems such as tower triangulation GPS A GPS E GPS etc. can have different tolerances. For instance with GPS tolerances can be achieved to about ten meters. With A GPS tolerances can be tightened to about twelve feet. In turn with E GPS tolerance may be a different error margin still. Compensating for the different tolerances is part of the interpretation engine for determining intersection of a pointing vector and a set of points of interest. In addition as shown in a distance to project out the pointing vector can be explicit configurable contextual etc.

In this regard the various embodiments described herein can employ any algorithm for distinguishing among boundaries of the endpoints such as boundary boxes or rectangles triangles circles etc. . For example one hundred fifty feet could be selected as a default radius and such value can be configured or be context sensitive to the service provided. On line real estate sites can be leveraged for existing POI information. Since different POI databases may track different information at different granularities a way of normalizing the POI data according to one convention or standard can also be implemented so that the residential real estate location data from Zillow for example can be integrated with GPS information from Starbucks.

In addition similar techniques can be implemented in a moving vehicle client that includes a GPS compass accelerometer etc. By filtering based on scenarios e.g. I need gas different subsets of points of interest e.g. gas stations can be determined for the user based not only on distance but an actual time it may take to get to the point of interest. In this regard while a gas station may be one hundred yards to the right off the highway the car may have already passed the corresponding exit and thus more useful information to provide is what gas station will take the least amount of time to drive from a current location based on direction location so as to provide predictive points of interest that are up ahead on the road and not already aged points of interest that would require turning around from one s destination in order to get to them.

For existing motor vehicle navigation devices or other conventional portable GPS navigation devices where a device does not natively include directional means such as a compass the device can have an extension slot that accommodates direction information from an external directional device such as a compass. Similarly for laptops or other portable electronic devices such devices can be outfitted with a card or board with a slot for a compass. While any of the services described herein can make web service calls as part of the pointing and retrieval of endpoint process as mentioned one advantageous feature of a user s locality in real space is that it is inherently more limited than a general Internet search for information. As a result a limited amount of data can be predictively maintained on a user s device in cache memory and properly aged out as data becomes stale.

One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that the various embodiments of methods and devices for generating digital graffiti and related embodiments described herein can be implemented in connection with any computer or other client or server device which can be deployed as part of a computer network or in a distributed computing environment and can be connected to any kind of data store. In this regard the various embodiments described herein can be implemented in any computer system or environment having any number of memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units. This includes but is not limited to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment or a distributed computing environment having remote or local storage.

Each object etc. and computing objects or devices etc. can communicate with one or more other objects etc. and computing objects or devices etc. by way of the communications network either directly or indirectly. Even though illustrated as a single element in network may comprise other computing objects and computing devices that provide services to the system of and or may represent multiple interconnected networks which are not shown. Each object etc. or etc. can also contain an application such as applications that might make use of an API or other object software firmware and or hardware suitable for communication with or implementation of the user profiling in a transaction and advertising platform as provided in accordance with various embodiments.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems can be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many networks are coupled to the Internet which provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks though any network infrastructure can be used for exemplary communications made incident to the techniques as described in various embodiments.

Thus a host of network topologies and network infrastructures such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures can be utilized. In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client is usually a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the illustration of as a non limiting example computers etc. can be thought of as clients and computers etc. can be thought of as servers where servers etc. provide data services such as receiving data from client computers etc. storing of data processing of data transmitting data to client computers etc. although any computer can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances. Any of these computing devices may be processing data or requesting services or tasks that may implicate the improved user profiling and related techniques as described herein for one or more embodiments.

A server is typically a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet or wireless network infrastructures. The client process may be active in a first computer system and the server process may be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects utilized pursuant to the user profiling can be provided standalone or distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

In a network environment in which the communications network bus is the Internet for example the servers etc. can be Web servers with which the clients etc. communicate via any of a number of known protocols such as the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . Servers etc. may also serve as clients etc. as may be characteristic of a distributed computing environment.

As mentioned various embodiments described herein apply to any device wherein it may be desirable to generate digital graffiti. It should be understood therefore that handheld portable and other computing devices and computing objects of all kinds are contemplated for use in connection with the various embodiments described herein i.e. anywhere that a device may request pointing based services. Accordingly the below general purpose remote computer described below in is but one example and the embodiments of the subject disclosure may be implemented with any client having network bus interoperability and interaction.

Although not required any of the embodiments can partly be implemented via an operating system for use by a developer of services for a device or object and or included within application software that operates in connection with the operable component s . Software may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that network interactions may be practiced with a variety of computer system configurations and protocols.

With reference to an exemplary remote device for implementing one or more embodiments herein can include a general purpose computing device in the form of a handheld computer . Components of handheld computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit .

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media and can be any available media that can be accessed by computer . The system memory may include computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . By way of example and not limitation memory may also include an operating system application programs other program modules and program data.

A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as output interface . In addition to a monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and a printer which may be connected through output interface .

The computer may operate in a networked or distributed environment using logical connections to one or more other remote computers such as remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node or any other remote media consumption or transmission device and may include any or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a network such local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks buses. Such networking environments are commonplace in homes offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

As mentioned above while exemplary embodiments have been described in connection with various computing devices networks and advertising architectures the underlying concepts may be applied to any network system and any computing device or system in which it is desirable to derive information about surrounding points of interest.

There are multiple ways of implementing one or more of the embodiments described herein e.g. an appropriate API tool kit driver code operating system control standalone or downloadable software object etc. which enables applications and services to use the pointing based services. Embodiments may be contemplated from the standpoint of an API or other software object as well as from a software or hardware object that provides pointing platform services in accordance with one or more of the described embodiments. Various implementations and embodiments described herein may have aspects that are wholly in hardware partly in hardware and partly in software as well as in software.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. For the avoidance of doubt the subject matter disclosed herein is not limited by such examples. In addition any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs nor is it meant to preclude equivalent exemplary structures and techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has contains and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims for the avoidance of doubt such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

As mentioned the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. As used herein the terms component system and the like are likewise intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on computer and the computer can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

The aforementioned systems have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It can be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or specified sub components some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components and according to various permutations and combinations of the foregoing. Sub components can also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components hierarchical . Additionally it should be noted that one or more components may be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality or divided into several separate sub components and any one or more middle layers such as a management layer may be provided to communicatively couple to such sub components in order to provide integrated functionality. Any components described herein may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein but generally known by those of skill in the art.

In view of the exemplary systems described supra methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flowcharts of the various figures. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Where non sequential or branched flow is illustrated via flowchart it can be appreciated that various other branches flow paths and orders of the blocks may be implemented which achieve the same or a similar result. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter.

While the various embodiments have been described in connection with the preferred embodiments of the various figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments may be used or modifications and additions may be made to the described embodiment for performing the same function without deviating therefrom. Still further one or more aspects of the above described embodiments may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Therefore the present invention should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

