---

title: Systems and methods for secure cloud-based media file sharing
abstract: Cloud-based systems and methods to securely share electronic files use a cloud or virtualized server to handle management tasks related to file sharing, while file storage is maintained securely by servers that are not part of the cloud. The content of the file to be shared is not transmitted to or by the cloud. Share requests from file senders, notifications to target recipients, and retrieve requests from target recipients are transmitted to and/or by the cloud.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09596216&OS=09596216&RS=09596216
owner: Signiant Inc.
number: 09596216
owner_city: Burlington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141208
---
The disclosure relates to cloud based systems and methods for electronic file sharing and in particular securely sharing media files.

Peer to peer electronic file sharing over a public network is known. Some peer to peer networks use prolific copying of files to enable distributed file sharing. For some types of data and or some types of digital industries such a distributed approach may not be sufficiently secure. Bi directional file synchronization over a public network is known. Some file synchronization services use cloud storage for electronic files. For some types of data and or some types of digital industries a file synchronization approach may not be sufficiently secure. Secure file sharing for example through encryption authorization password protection etc. may be known.

One aspect of the disclosure relates to cloud based systems configured to securely share and or transfer electronic files. The system may include multiple processors in a plurality of server platforms cooperating to implement a virtualized server. The plurality of server platforms collectively and or the virtualized server individually may be referred to as a computing cloud. The virtualized server may include computer program modules that manage and organize secure file sharing and or file transfer. For the purposes of this disclosure sharing one or more electronic files may include one or more users sharing access to the same one or more electronic files one or more users sharing access to one or more copies of one or more electronic files one or more users transferring and or transmitting one or more electronic files to one or more users and or one or more users transferring and or transmitting one or more copies of one or more electronic files to one or more users.

The electronic files shared by virtue of secure file sharing as described herein may not actually be stored received and or and transmitted by the virtualized server or the plurality of server platforms. That is cloud storage may not be implemented for the shared electronic files. One or more separate storage servers that are managed and accessed independently from the virtualized server may be used to store the electronic files. The one or more separate storage servers may include one or more private storage servers. The one or more private storage servers may use one or more levels and or types of access control. The content of the electronic files may be managed accessed and or stored securely through the one or more storage servers.

The virtualized server may be deployed using a public network and or using commercial web services. The public network and or the commercial web services may neither store receive nor transmit copies of the electronic files being shared. The virtualized server may have access to some information related to the electronic files including one or more of file names storage locations access rights information format and or file type information file size information and or other meta information related to the one or more electronic files.

The virtualized server may include computer program modules. The computer program modules may include a user module a share request module a cloud identifier module a notification module a retrieve request module a transfer instruction module and or other modules.

The user module may be configured to identify authenticate and or authorize users and or user accounts of users within the system. Individual user accounts may be associated with individual users. In some implementations individual users and or individual user accounts may be associated with individual private storage servers.

The share request module may be configured to receive share requests at the virtualized server from client computing platforms associated with users. Share requests may indicate intent by users to share electronic files with other users. The share requests may include a first share request. A share request may pertain to one or more electronic files that are intended to be shared. A share request may pertain to one or more other users that are intended to receive access to the one or more electronic files. The users on behalf of whom the share requests may be received may be referred to as senders. The senders may include a first user. The client computing platforms from which the share requests may be received may include a first client computing platform. The electronic files that may be intended to be shared by a specific sender such as the first user may include a first electronic file. The first client computing platform may be associated with a specific sender such as the first user. The first user may indicate through the first share request intent to share the first electronic file with one or more other users. A share request may include one or more file identifiers storage identifiers user identifiers and or other information.

File identifiers may identify electronic files stored using electronic storage. The electronic storage may be identified by storage identifiers. The file identifiers may include a particular file identifier. A particular file identifier may include and or be based on a file name and or a directory path associated with a file location of a particular electronic file and or other information that may be used to identify and or locate a particular electronic file. Storage identifiers may include one or more storage server names and or locations names of a storage device and or location locations of electronic storage and or other information that may be used to identify electronic storage of electronic files. User identifiers may identify one or more target file recipients for one or more electronic files. A target file recipient may be referred to as a prospective receiver or receiver for short . The one or more target file recipients may include a specific target file recipient such as a first receiver. The first user may intend to share the first electronic files with the first receiver. Any of the identifiers used in the share request may use an encoded encrypted scrambled hashed and or otherwise processed version of the contained information as long as the corresponding reverse operation is available to retrieve the contained information in a usable form.

Electronic storage such as the electronic storage identified by the storage identifiers included in the share requests may be managed and accessed independently from the virtualized server. That is the virtualized server may neither store receive nor transmit electronic files or copies thereof.

The cloud identifier module of the virtualized server may be configured to assign create and or generate cloud identifiers. Cloud identifiers may identify electronic files. Cloud identifiers may include alphanumeric characters. The cloud identifiers may include a first cloud identifier. The first cloud identifier may identify the first electronic file. Cloud identifiers may be based on one or more file identifiers for example without limitation through a hash function. Cloud identifiers may be based on both of one or more file identifiers and one or more storage identifiers. Cloud identifiers may be based on one or more file identifiers storage identifiers target file recipients senders receivers and or user identifiers such as any identifiers included in share requests. Information related to a particular share request may be identified by a particular intermediary identifier. Cloud identifiers may not include a file name in unencrypted or readily readable form . Such particular intermediary identifiers may be assigned created and or generated by the cloud identifier module. Cloud identifiers may relate to be based on or be similar to such particular intermediary identifiers.

The cloud identifier module of the virtualized server may be configured to store associations between cloud identifiers and one or more file identifiers storage identifiers target file recipients and or user identifiers. An individual association between an individual cloud identifier and one or more identifiers included in an individual share request may be stored by the cloud identifier module for verification and or other purposes described elsewhere herein.

The notification module of the virtualized server may be configured to provide notifications to receivers. Notifications may indicate intent by senders to share electronic files with receivers. Notifications may include cloud identifiers from the cloud identifier module. The notifications may include a first notification. The first notification may include the first cloud identifier. Provision of notifications may be implemented by electronic mail messages to email addresses that may be associated with the receivers. Electronic messages may include universal resource locators links and or other information that may be usable by the virtualized server to identify particular electronic files. Such resource locators links and or other information may provide receivers with direct or indirect access via the virtualized server to the particular electronic files. The first notification may indicate intent by a specific sender such as the first user to share the first electronic file as identified by the first cloud identifier with the first receiver.

The retrieve request module of the virtualized server may be configured to receive retrieve requests from target computing platforms associated with receivers. Retrieve requests may indicate intent by receivers to receive copies of particular electronic files and or obtain access thereto. Retrieve requests may include cloud identifiers from the cloud identifier module. Cloud identifiers may identify particular electronic files. The retrieve requests may include a first retrieve request associated with the first receiver. The first retrieve request may include the first cloud identifier.

The virtualized server may be configured to verify whether receivers match intended target recipients as included in share requests. Verification may be based on the stored associations as described in relation to the cloud identifier module. The virtualized server may verify whether the first receiver who may be associated with the first retrieve request matches the target file recipient of the first share request. Verification of a first receiver may be based on an individual association between the first cloud identifier as included in the first retrieve request and the target file recipient of the first share request. Individual associations may be stored by the cloud identifier module as described elsewhere herein. In other words a particular user who is not the target file recipient may not be able to use a particular notification provided to the target file recipient and or access the electronic file that corresponds to the cloud identifier in the particular notification.

The transfer instruction module may be configured to transmit instructions that cause retrieval of copies of electronic files. Operation of the transfer instruction module may be responsive to receipt of retrieve requests from receivers. Operation of the transfer instruction module may be responsive to verification that the receivers match the intended target file recipients as included in share requests. The electronic files to be retrieved may be identified by cloud identifiers. Electronic files and or copies thereof may be retrieved from electronic storage. The electronic storage may be identified by storage identifiers that may be included in share requests and or that may correspond to cloud identifiers included in retrieve requests. The content of the electronic files may be neither stored received nor transmitted by the virtualized server. The electronic files may include the first electronic file. The retrieval of the first electronic file may be responsive to receipt of the first retrieve request from the target computing platform associated with the first receiver. The retrieval of the first electronic file may be responsive to verification whether the first receiver matches the intended target file recipient of the first share request. Such verification may be based on an individual association stored by the cloud identifier module as described elsewhere herein.

The transfer instruction module may be configured to transmit instructions to one or more client computing platforms from which share requests may have been received electronic storage may have been used to store electronic files target computing platforms from which retrieve requests may have been received storage servers that may be configured to manage and access the electronic storage that may be used to store electronic files independently from the virtualized server and or other components of the system of the virtualized server and or external components. The external components may be communicatively coupled to the system such that receivers may access transmitted copies of electronic files e.g. through target computing platforms.

These and other objects features and characteristics of the systems and or methods disclosed herein as well as the methods of operation and functions of the related elements of structure and the combination of parts and economies of manufacture will become more apparent upon consideration of the following description and the appended claims with reference to the accompanying figures all of which form a part of this specification wherein like reference numerals designate corresponding parts in the various figures. It is to be expressly understood however that the figures are for the purpose of illustration and description only and are not intended as a definition of any limits. As used in the specification and in the claims the singular form of a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

System may include virtualized server one or more client computing platforms one or more storage servers electronic storage and or other components. The electronic files shared by virtue of secure file sharing as described herein may not actually be stored received and or transmitted by virtualized server nor by electronic storage nor in cloud storage. The components in may be communicatively coupled through one or more networks including but not limited to the Internet.

Virtualized server may include computer program modules. The computer program modules may include a share request module a cloud identifier module a notification module a retrieve request module a transfer instruction module a cloud interface module a user module and or other modules.

Virtualized server may be deployed using a public network such as by way of non limiting example the Internet and or using commercial web services hosted by a third party such as by way of non limiting example Amazon Web Services hosted by Amazon or Microsoft Azure hosted by Microsoft . Server platforms processors and or other components of virtualized server may be associated with a web services provider and or hosted by a third party.

Share request module of virtualized server may be configured to receive share requests at virtualized server from client computing platforms associated with users. For example a first share request may indicate intent by a sender to share a first electronic file with a first receiver. The first share request may be received from a client computing platform that may be associated with the sender. The client computing platform that is associated with the sender may be referred to as sender computing platform . The first share request may include one or more of a first file identifier a first storage identifier a first user identifier and or other information. Two or more of the first file identifier the first storage identifier the first user identifier and or other identification information may be combined in an aggregate identifier included in the first share request. In some implementations share requests may pertain to electronic files that may be stored on client computing platforms . Such share requests may imply a request to upload and or store one or more electronic files on a particular storage server e.g. for future secure file sharing as described herein. Communication between client computing platforms and virtualized server may be based on a representational state transfer REST architecture.

The first file identifier may identify the first electronic file. The first electronic file may be stored using electronic storage. The electronic storage may be identified by the first storage identifier. For example the first file identifier may include the file name and or directory path of the first electronic file. The first storage identifier may include the name and or location of the specific storage server where the first electronic file is and or will be stored. In some implementations individual ones of the users and or the user accounts may be associated with individual ones of the storage servers which may obviate the need to explicitly include a storage identifier with a share request. Share requests pertaining to electronic files that may be stored on client computing platforms may not include a storage identifier. The first user identifier may identify the first receiver. The first receiver may be referred to as the first target file recipient.

Cloud identifier module of virtualized server may be configured to associate cloud identifiers with electronic files to be shared through system . Cloud identifier module may be configured to generate obtain create assign and or provide other functionality included in making these associations between electronic files and cloud identifiers. Individual cloud identifiers may identify the associated individual electronic files to be shared. For example a first cloud identifier associated with the first electronic file may identify the first electronic file. Cloud identifier module may be configured to generate the first cloud identifier based on one or more of the first file identifier the first storage identifier or prospective storage identifier where the electronic files will be stored the first user identifier and or other identifiers such as may be included in and or related to the first share request.

Cloud identifier module of virtualized server may be configured to store associations between cloud identifiers and one or more file identifiers storage identifiers target file recipients and or user identifiers. For example cloud identifier module may store a first association between the first cloud identifier and one or more identifiers included in and or related to the first share request. Stored associations may be used to verify whether prospective receivers match intended target file recipients during secure file sharing. For example a particular user who is not the target file recipient related to a particular share request may not be able to retrieve and or access the electronic file that corresponds to the cloud identifier that is associated with that particular share request.

Notification module of virtualized server may be configured to provide notifications to receivers. Notifications may indicate intent by senders to share electronic files with receivers. In some implementations a client computing platform may be associated with the first receiver. This client computing platform may be referred to as the receiver computing platform the target file recipient computing platform and or the target computing platform .

A first notification provided by notification module may include the first cloud identifier. The first notification may be implemented as a first electronic mail message to the first receiver. The first electronic mail message may include a first universal resource locator URL . The first universal resource locator may be referred to as the first link. The first receiver may use the first link when establishing communication with virtualized server and or after communication with virtualized server has been established. Responsive to establishing communication with virtualized server and using the first link virtualized server and or target computing platform may be configured to generate and or present a graphical user interface to the first receiver. Such a graphical user interface may be referred to as a landing page. In some implementations graphical user interfaces may be generated and or presented by cloud interface module . For example the first receiver may cause a retrieve request to be received at virtualized server through a graphical user interface. An example of such a graphical user interface is described elsewhere herein in relation to .

Referring to retrieve request module of virtualized server may be configured to receive retrieve requests e.g. from target computing platforms associated with receivers. Retrieve requests may indicate intent by receivers to receive copies of particular electronic files and or obtain access thereto. For example a first retrieve request from the first receiver may include the first cloud identifier identifying the first electronic file. In some implementations a particular selection activation and or confirmation within a graphical user interface may cause send and or transmit the first retrieve request such that the first retrieve request is received at virtualized server . As described above such a graphical user interface may be generated and or presented by cloud interface module .

Transfer instruction module of virtualized server may be configured to transmit instructions that cause retrieval of copies of electronic files. Operation of the transfer instruction module may be responsive to receipt of retrieve requests from receivers. Operation of the transfer instruction module may be responsive to verification e.g. by cloud identifier module that the receivers match the intended target file recipients as included in share requests. For example the first electronic file to be retrieved from electronic storage identified by the first storage identifier included in the first share request may be identified by the first cloud identifier. The retrieval of the first electronic file may be responsive to verification whether the first receiver matches the intended target file recipient of the first share request. Such verification may be based on an individual association stored by cloud identifier module as described elsewhere herein. In other words a particular receiver who is not the target file recipient may not be able to use a particular notification provided to the target file recipient and or access the electronic file that corresponds to the cloud identifier in the particular notification.

Transfer instruction module of virtualized server may be configured to transmit instructions to one or more client computing platforms e.g. sender computing platform from which share requests may have been received target computing platforms from which retrieve requests may have been received storage servers e.g. private servers that may be configured to manage and access electronic storage used to store electronic files independently from virtualized server and or other components of system of virtualized server and or external components. The external components may be communicatively coupled to system such that receivers may access transmitted copies of electronic files e.g. through one or more target computing platforms .

In some implementations share requests may pertain to electronic files that may be stored on client computing platforms . In such cases transfer instruction module of virtualized server may be configured to transmit instructions that cause storage and or uploading of electronic files on storage servers . Transfer instruction module of virtualized server may be configured to transmit instructions to one or more client computing platforms e.g. sender computing platform from which share requests may have been received storage servers e.g. private servers that may be configured to manage and access electronic storage used to store electronic files independently from virtualized server in particular a storage server that may be associated with the sender and or the user account of the sender and or other components of system of virtualized server .

User module may be configured to identify authenticate and or authorize users and or user accounts of users within system . Individual user accounts may be associated with individual users. Individual users and or individual user accounts may be associated with individual private servers and or storage servers . This association may obviate the need for senders and or receivers to supply and or select storage identifiers during use of system . User accounts may include access permissions to one or more electronic files. Access permission may include view edit and or other types of permissions. Access permissions may include macro permissions over sets and or categories of electronic files and micro permissions related to an individual electronic file. User accounts may be used for senders and or receivers in system .

User module may be configured to obtain access authorization from users including senders and or receivers. Obtaining access authorization may require one or more of a user account a user name and or user identifier security login information an access code password key fob code electronic token security token biometric information proximity information a radio frequency RF token and or other ways to supply information that may be used to authorize access to a system in an attempt to keep that system secure. Obtaining access authorization may include verifying that a retrieve request is received from the target file recipient as intended in the pertinent share request. For example such verification may be based on an association stored by cloud identifier module .

Cloud interface module of virtualized server may be configured to generate and or present graphical user interfaces for display on client computing platforms. The graphical user interfaces may be configured to facilitate interaction between the client computing platforms and virtualized server . Cloud interface module may be used by senders and or receivers. For example a graphical user interface for a sender may facilitate the exchange of share requests. A graphical user interface for a receiver may facilitate the exchange of notifications retrieve requests and or access to transmitted copies of electronic files that were intended to be shared with the receiver.

By way of illustration illustrates a graphical user interface that may be used by a sender to securely share electronic files. For the purpose of describing an exemplary implementation of a graphical user interface in this disclosure graphical user interface in may be presented to a first user of the system. The first user may be referred to as the sender. Presentation of graphical user interface to the sender may be accomplished through a client computing platform that is associated with the sender. Graphical user interface includes multiple interface elements including input elements and output elements and and action element . In some implementations graphical user interface may be generated and or presented by cloud interface module shown in and described above .

Returning to elements of graphical user interface may be implemented as fields configured to receive entry selection and or confirmation from a user e.g. from the sender. The fields may include one or more of a text entry field a set of selectable menu items a selectable field and or other fields configured to receive entry selection and or confirmation from the sender. Input element may be used to enter a user identifier that identifies a user of the system and or graphical user interface e.g. through a user name. In some implementations input element may include text entry that may be used to filter and or search through a set of user identifiers for selection. Input element may be used to enter access authorization that authorizes access for the sender associated with the user identifier in input element e.g. through a password. Input element may include text entry.

Input element may be used to enter a file identifier that identifies an electronic file to be shared e.g. through a file name. In some implementations input element may provide access to a file browser to facilitate finding a particular electronic file on one or more file systems that are accessible from the client computing platform of the sender. Input element may be used to enter a storage identifier that identifies electronic storage where the electronic file associated with the file identifier in input element is stored e.g. through a storage server name. In some implementations input element may not be needed for example in cases where a particular storage server may be associated with a particular user and or a particular user account. In some implementations the particular electronic file to be shared may be stored on a client computing platform associated with the sender. Through graphical user interface the sender may select such an electronic file and imply a request to upload this electronic file to a storage server .

Responsive to the sender providing and or selecting a particular electronic file through input elements and or the particular electronic file may be added to output element a selected file list. Alternatively and or simultaneously to using input elements and the sender may use input element and output element . Input element may be used to enter a search parameter to facilitate finding electronic files on the one or more file systems that are accessible from the client computing platform of the sender. The search results responsive to using the search parameter may be presented in output element e.g. as a list of electronic files. The sender may select one or more electronic files from output element and add them to output element e.g. by dragging and dropping. Note that the selected file list may include multiple electronic files that are selected by the sender to be shared.

Input element may be used to enter a user identifier that identifies a target file recipient for the one or more electronic files in selected file list e.g. through a receiver name and or an email address for the receiver. In some implementations input element may include text entry that may be used to filter and or search through a set of user identifiers for selection. Responsive to the sender providing and or selecting a particular receiver through input elements the particular receiver may be added to output element a selected receiver list. Alternatively and or simultaneously to using input element the sender may use input element and output element . Input element may be used to enter a search parameter to facilitate finding prospective receivers. The search results responsive to using the search parameter may be presented in output element e.g. as a list of receiver names. The sender may select one or e.g. by dragging and dropping. Note that the selected receiver list may include multiple receivers that are selected by the sender to receiver one or more selected electronic files.

Action element may be a selectable field in graphical user interface which triggers upon selection by the sender a confirmation from the sender that the selected list of electronic files in output element is intended to be shared with the selected list of receivers in output element . Electronic files in the selected list of electronic files that are not yet stored in storage servers may upon selection of action element by the sender be uploaded to one or more storage servers as described elsewhere herein.

By way of illustration illustrates a graphical user interface that may be used by a receiver to retrieve electronic files that are securely shared by a sender. For the purpose of describing an exemplary implementation of a graphical user interface in this disclosure graphical user interface in may be presented to a first receiver of the system. The first receiver may be referred to as the receiver. Presentation of graphical user interface to the receiver may be accomplished through a client computing platform that is associated with the receiver. Graphical user interface includes multiple interface elements including input elements and output elements and and action elements and . In some implementations graphical user interface may be generated and or presented by cloud interface module shown in and described above e.g. in relation to a receiver using a universal resource locator that is included in a notification provided by notification module .

Returning to elements of graphical user interface may be implemented as fields configured to receive entry selection and or confirmation from a user e.g. from the receiver. The fields may include one or more of a text entry field a set of selectable menu items a selectable field and or other fields configured to receive entry selection and or confirmation from the receiver. Input element may be used to enter a user identifier that identifies a user of the system and or graphical user interface e.g. through a user name. In some implementations input element may include text entry that may be used to filter and or search through a set of user identifiers for selection. Input element may be used to enter access authorization that authorizes access for the receiver associated with the user identifier in input element e.g. through a password. Input element may include text entry.

Output element may be used to present a file identifier that identifies an electronic file to be shared e.g. through a file name. Output element may be used to present a storage identifier that identifies electronic storage where the electronic file associated with the file identifier from output element is stored e.g. through a storage server name. In some implementations output element may not be needed for example in cases where a particular storage server may be associated with a particular user and or a particular user account. Output element may be used to present a user identifier that identifies the sender e.g. through the sender name. The receiver may select and or deselect the electronic file of output element for retrieval through action element which may toggle between selection and deselection when used by the receiver.

Output element may be used to present a file identifier that identifies a second electronic file to be shared e.g. through a file name. Output element may be used to present a storage identifier that identifies electronic storage where the electronic file associated with the file identifier from output element is stored e.g. through a storage server name. In some implementations output element may not be needed for example in cases where a particular storage server may be associated with a particular user and or a particular user account. Output element may be used to present a user identifier that identifies the sender e.g. through the sender name. Note that the sender of electronic file may be different than the sender of electronic file . The receiver may select and or deselect the electronic file of output element for retrieval through action element which may toggle between selection and deselection when used by the receiver.

Action element may be a selectable field in graphical user interface which triggers upon selection by the receiver a confirmation from the receiver that the selected electronic files are intended to be retrieved.

Returning to one or more storage servers may be private storage servers that are managed and accessed independently form virtualized server . Storage servers may include electronic storage computer program modules and or other components. The computer program modules may include storage module interface module and or other modules. One or more storage servers may be used to store electronic files prior during and after secure file sharing as described herein. A storage server may be accessible through a client computing platform e.g. for uploading and or downloading of electronic files. A storage server may securely bind with virtualized server for example through interface module .

Storage module of storage server may be configured to manage access to electronic storage . For example a sender may intend to share with a receiver a particular electronic file that is stored on a particular storage server e.g. on electronic storage of that particular storage server . By virtue of secure file sharing as described herein in some implementations the receiver may have access to the particular electronic file through a target computing platform that has established communication with the particular storage server . In some implementations a copy of the particular electronic file may be stored in a different storage server e.g. on electronic storage of that different storage server . The receiver may have access to that copy of the particular electronic file through a target computing platform that has established communication with the different storage server .

Interface module of storage server may be configured to facilitate interaction between storage server and one or more client computing platforms . Interface module may further be configured to facilitate the exchange of information and or instructions with virtualized server pertaining to secure file sharing of electronic files stored in electronic storage . Note that the content of electronic files stored in electronic storage may not actually be stored received and or transmitted to virtualized server . Interface module may be configured to receive instructions from e.g. transfer instruction module to upload one or more electronic files from a client computing platform to electronic storage .

One or more processors may be configured to provide information processing capabilities in system . As such processor may include one or more of a digital processor an analog processor a digital circuit designed to process information an analog circuit designed to process information a state machine and or other mechanisms for electronically processing information. Although processor may be shown in as a single entity this is for illustrative purposes only. In some implementations processor may include a plurality of processing units. These processing units may be physically located within the same device or processor may represent processing functionality of a plurality of devices operating in coordination e.g. in the cloud and or other virtualized processing solutions .

It should be appreciated that although modules are illustrated in as being co located within a single processing unit in implementations in which processor includes multiple processing units one or more of modules may be located remotely from the other modules. The description of the functionality provided by the different modules described herein is for illustrative purposes and is not intended to be limiting as any of modules may provide more or less functionality than is described. For example one or more of modules may be eliminated and some or all of its functionality may be provided by other ones of modules . As another example processor may be configured to execute one or more additional modules that may perform some or all of the functionality attributed below to one of modules .

Electronic storage and of system in may comprise electronic storage media that stores information. The electronic storage media of electronic storage and may include one or both of system storage that is provided integrally i.e. substantially non removable with system and or removable storage that is removably connectable to system via for example a port e.g. a USB port a FireWire port etc. or a drive e.g. a disk drive etc. . Electronic storage and may include one or more of optically readable storage media e.g. optical disks etc. magnetically readable storage media e.g. magnetic tape magnetic hard drive floppy drive etc. electrical charge based storage media e.g. EEPROM RAM etc. solid state storage media e.g. flash drive etc. network attached storage NAS and or other electronically readable storage media. Electronic storage may include virtual storage resources such as storage resources provided via a cloud and or a virtual private network. Electronic storage and may store software algorithms information determined by processor information received via client computing platforms and or other information that enables system to function properly. Electronic storage and may be separate components within system or electronic storage and may be provided integrally with one or more other components of system e.g. processor .

At an operation a cloud identifier to identify the electronic file may be assigned. The cloud identifier may be based on one or more of the file identifier and or the storage identifier. In some implementations operation may be performed by a cloud identifier module that is the same as or similar to cloud identifier module shown in and described herein .

At an operation a notification is provided to the target file recipient by the virtualized server. The notification may indicate intent by the user to share the electronic file. The notification may include the cloud identifier. In some implementations operation may be performed by a notification module that is the same as or similar to notification module shown in and described herein .

At an operation a retrieve request is received at the virtualized server. The retrieve request may be received from a target computing platform that is associated with the target file recipient. The retrieve request may include the cloud identifier. The retrieve request may indicate intent by the target file recipient to receive a copy of the electronic file identified by the cloud identifier. In some implementations operation may be performed by a retrieve request module that is the same as or similar to retrieve request module shown in and described herein .

At an operation one or more instructions are transmitted that cause retrieval of a copy of the electronic file from the electronic storage. The copy of the electronic file may be retrieved independently from the virtualized server. In some implementations operation may be performed by a notification module that is the same as or similar to transfer instruction module shown in and described herein .

At an operation the retrieve request is provided to the virtualized server from the target computing platform. The retrieve request may include the cloud identifier. The retrieve request may indicate intent by the target file recipient to receive a copy of the electronic file identified by the cloud identifier. In some implementations operation may be performed by a client computing platform and or interface module that are the same as or similar to client computing platform and or interface module shown in and described herein .

At an operation the copy of the electronic file is received at the target computing platform. Operation may be responsive to retrieval of the copy of the electronic file from the electronic storage that is identified by the storage identifier such that retrieval is independent from the virtualized server. In some implementations operation may be performed by a client computing platform and or interface module that are the same as or similar to client computing platform and or storage module shown in and described herein .

At an operation a cloud identifier to identify the electronic file may be assigned. The cloud identifier may be based on the file identifier. In some implementations operation may be performed by a cloud identifier module that is the same as or similar to cloud identifier module shown in and described herein .

At an operation one or more instructions are transmitted that cause the electronic file to be uploaded from the electronic storage to the storage server. In some implementations operation may be performed by a notification module that is the same as or similar to transfer instruction module shown in and described herein .

The operations of methods and presented herein are intended to be illustrative. In some embodiments one or more of methods and may be accomplished with one or more additional operations not described and or without one or more of the operations discussed. Additionally the order in which the operations of methods and are illustrated in and and described herein is not intended to be limiting.

In some embodiments one or more of methods and may be implemented in one or more processing devices e.g. a digital processor an analog processor a digital circuit designed to process information an analog circuit designed to process information a state machine and or other mechanisms for electronically processing information . The one or more processing devices may include one or more devices executing some or all of the operations of one or more of methods and in response to instructions stored electronically on an electronic storage medium. The one or more processing devices may include one or more devices configured through hardware firmware and or software to be specifically designed for execution of one or more of the operations of one or more of methods and .

Although the system s and or method s of this disclosure have been described in detail for the purpose of illustration based on what is currently considered to be the most practical and preferred implementations it is to be understood that such detail is solely for that purpose and that the disclosure is not limited to the disclosed implementations but on the contrary is intended to cover modifications and equivalent arrangements that are within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. For example it is to be understood that the present disclosure contemplates that to the extent possible one or more features of any implementation can be combined with one or more features of any other implementation.

