---

title: Multi-tenant service
abstract: A multi-tenant management service (MTMS) can be configured to receive a plurality of requests for a multi-tenant service from a plurality of tenants. A given and another of the plurality of tenants can have a resource object (RO) with the same dialable number (DN) assigned thereto. The MTMS can also be configured to generate a federated dial plan for each of the plurality of tenants. Each federated dial plan can include a system identifier (ID) and a corresponding DN for each RO associated a respective tenant. The MTMS can further be configured to provide a federated DN corresponding to the multi-tenant service to each of the plurality of tenants.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09661143&OS=09661143&RS=09661143
owner: Shoretel, Inc.
number: 09661143
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140313
---
This application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 778 833 filed on Mar. 13 2013 and entitled HYBRID PREMISES AND CLOUD BASED USER SYSTEM FOR INTEGRATING AND SUPPORTING CALL CONTROL the contents of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

A private branch exchange PBX is a telephone exchange or switching system that serves an organization and performs concentration of central office lines or trunks and provides intercommunication between telephone stations in the organization. The central office lines provide connections to the public switched telephone network PSTN and the concentration aspect of a PBX permits the shared use of these lines between all stations in the organization. The intercommunication aspect of the PBX allows two or more stations to establish telephone or conferencing calls between them without using the central office lines.

Hybrid cloud computing relates to a composition of two or more clouds private community or public that remain unique entities but are bound together offering the benefits of multiple deployment models. Such composition can expand deployment options for cloud services allowing information technology IT organizations to use public cloud computing resources to meet certain needs. By utilizing hybrid cloud architecture companies and individuals are able to obtain degrees of fault tolerance combined with locally immediate usability without dependency on internet connectivity. Hybrid cloud architecture requires both on premises resources and off site remote server based cloud infrastructure.

One example relates to a non transitory computer readable medium storing machine readable instructions that include a multi tenant management service MTMS that can be configured to receive a plurality of requests for a multi tenant service from a plurality of tenants. A given and another of the plurality of tenants can have a resource object RO with the same dialable number DN assigned thereto. The MTMS can also be configured to generate a federated dial plan for each of the plurality of tenants. Each federated dial plan can include a system identifier ID and a corresponding DN for each RO associated a respective tenant. The MTMS can further be configured to provide a federated DN corresponding to the multi tenant service to each of the plurality of tenants.

Another example relates to a system that includes an MTMS. The MTMS can be configured to generate a federated dial plan for a tenant in response to a request for a selected service. The federated dial plan can include a system ID and a DN for each RO associated with the tenant. The MTMS can also be configured to provide the federated dial plan for the tenant to a multi tenant private branch exchange MT PBX . The MTMS can further be configured to provide a federated DN for the selected service to a private branch exchange PBX of the tenant. The MT PBX can include a multi tenant director configured to program a trunk switch of the MT PBX such that a call to the federated DN of the selected service from an RO of the tenant is routed to the selected service.

Yet another example relates to a method that can include receiving a dial plan from a tenant in response to ordering a selected service. The dial plan can include a DN for a plurality of ROs at the tenant. The method can also include generating a federated dial plan that includes the DNs for each of the plurality of ROs at the tenant and a system identifier for the tenant. The method can further include providing a federated DN for the selected service to a PBX of the tenant.

This disclosure relates to deploying one or more multi tenant services such as from a data center. A selected service can be deployed from the data center to a plurality of tenants on an as needed basis. Each tenant can include a plurality of resource objects ROs e.g. telephones or other devices that each have a dialable number DN e.g. short number dialing such as an extension number and or direct dial number assigned thereto. The data center can include a multi tenant management service MTMS configured to generate a federated dial plan for each tenant or some subset thereof that includes a system identifier ID for each tenant as well as the DNs for each RO of each tenant. In this manner each RO can be uniquely addressed even if dial plans e.g. non federated dial plans are overlapping such that one or more of the same DNs are employed at multiple tenants. The MTMS can also be configured to provide each tenant with controlled access to one or more selected services by dialing a federated DN associated with the selected service during a specific time period. By implementing the data center the tenants can avoid purchasing dedicated hardware that would implement the selected service. Additionally employment of the federated dial plans enables for unified communications between the tenants.

For purposes of simplification of explanation only the details of the first premises PREMISES is illustrated and described. The remaining 2to Kth premises can be implemented in a similar or different manner. The first premises can include a private branch exchange PBX that can control communications e.g. audio visual or a combination thereof for users of the first premises . Each of the premises can be implemented as a private network that can include a variety of resources for controlling communications including the PBX .

The PBX provides a communications exchange that services a particular entity corresponding to the premises e.g. a business that may include one or more offices . This is in contrast to a common carrier e.g. telephone service provider that operates for many businesses or for the general public. For instance the PBX of the premises can communicate with a service provider such as via a network not shown . Thus the PBX can include hardware e.g. switches logic lines routers conferencing systems and other controls and or software configured to couple to the network for sending and receiving communications to and from the premises as well as for routing distributing and managing communications within the premises. The PBX can be configured to implement packet switched calls such as implementing voice over internet protocol VoIP circuit switched calls or a combination of packet and circuit switched communications.

For example N number of resource objects ROs can communicate with the PBX where N is an integer greater than or equal to one. Each of the N number of ROs could be implemented for example as a desktop phone a mobile phone e.g. a wireless phone or a smartphone a virtual phone e.g. software executing on a computer or the like. Each of the N number of ROs can be connected to a switch e.g. a network switch of the PBX configured to control signaling between the RO and the PBX . Each of the N number of ROs can have an extension number or other short number dialing and or direct dial number that distinguishes a given RO from the other of the N number of ROs within the first premises . The extension number could be for example an M digit number where M is an integer greater than or equal to one. For example if M is 3 the extension number for of the N number of the given RO could be a number from 001 and 999.

In many instances a user of the given RO of the N number of ROs can dial an extension number and or direct dial number of another RO of the N number of ROs that is located at the first premises and the switch can establish a bidirectional communication path between the two ROs . The number dialed at a given RO to connect to another RO e.g. an extension number or direct dial number can be referred as a dialable number DN . In some examples a service such as On Net Dialing OND can be enabled to allow the given RO to connect to the other RO by simply dialing only the DN.

OND can be implemented as a mechanism that allows a dial plan to be partitioned into groups often by a physical office or site and in some cases by departments or other organizational boundaries. When OND is enabled a user can dial other ROs that are part of the same portion of the phone network office by simply dialing a short extension number. To reach extensions that are not part of the same portion of the phone network a prefix or other number may be dialed that is assigned to the group of numbers that the extension is part of. Off System Extensions OSEs are a mechanism to identify extensions that are not on the system but can be dialed as extensions.

The dial plan for each of the tenants can define rules for assigning extensions within a tenant and or the enterprise system . For instance the dial plan can include rules that specify that particular digits such as 9 and 0 are reserved digits such that no extension number begins with 9 or 0 . In such a situation the digit 0 can be used either for an Operator or as a TAC and 9 can be reserved for emergency dialing e.g. 911 and or dialing an external number. Further the dial plan may specify that 8 is pseudo reserved such that an extension can begin with 8 in some situations.

The PBX can include a director that can control operations of the PBX . The director can be implemented for example as software e.g. machine readable instructions executing on a processor hardware e.g. an application specific integrated circuit ASIC chip or a combination thereof e.g. firmware . The director can be configured for example to assign and or change the DNs of the N number of ROs . Additionally in some examples the director can be configured to assign profiles e.g. user profiles and or service profiles to one or more of the N number of ROs .

For example the director could be configured to create a profile for a user named John Smith and assign that user profile to a first RO e.g. RO of the N number of ROs . In this manner the first RO could be identified by either the DN associated with the first RO or the name of the user profile. A directory of the first premises can be stored at PBX and the directory can include for example user profiles and DNs as well as other information.

The PBX can also include a trunk switch e.g. a Session Initiation Protocol SIP trunk switch that can be configured to communicate with external systems. The trunk switch can communicate with the switch to allow users of the N number of ROs to dial a telephone number to establish bidirectional communication with another communication endpoint e.g. another telephone that is not associated with the first premises . In such situations information including a directory and or a dial plan of a tenant and or the data center can in some examples be transmitted using a series of SIP messages. In other examples the information can be provided over another protocol such as an authenticated Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure HTTPS session in a manner described herein. As used herein the term trunk switch can refer to multiple instances of a trunk switch and or a trunk switch that can connect to a plurality of different systems to support connectivity with different types of trunks. For instance the trunk switch can be configured to establish communication with the public switched telephone network PSTN to establish communication between the first RO and the other communication endpoint.

The PBX can communicate with a multi tenant MT PBX included at the data center . The MT PBX can be configured in a manner similar to the PBX of the first premises . In some examples as explained herein the MT PBX and the PBX can implement a service such as Off System Extensions OSEs that can be implemented to allow the PBX to route calls to DNs extensions that are outside of the first premises by dialing the system ID and the DN together the federated DN .

The tenants that are associated with a common MT PBX such as the MT PBX can have dial plans that specify that each DN extension is the same number of digits e.g. the same length . In some situations there can be multiple instances of MT PBX for 3 digit extensions 4 digit extensions etc. Accordingly the dial plan of the MT PBX can include rules that specify a length of extensions for associated tenants .

The data center e.g. cloud can include a variety of hardware and or software resources that can be supported in a given cloud including servers branch exchanges routers and databases for example. Such resources can include processors memory servers software applications that cooperate to provide cloud computing capabilities for users and premises based systems that desire to exploit cloud resources that enhance existing functionality of their premises based system.

In the example of the data center can include a MT service that can be configured to provide communication services to external systems such as the tenants . Additionally as explained herein the data center can concurrently provide the MT service to multiple tenants such as the first to Kth premises and the remote site . The MT service could include for example an enterprise contact center ECC instant messaging IM service a unified communication bridge e.g. an audio web meeting and or video conferencing service connect service or the like. Additionally in some examples the MT service can be implemented as multiple instances of a service. In other examples a single MT service can be configured to provide a plurality of different services.

The data center can include a session border controller SBC to exert control over the signaling and or media streams involved in setting up conducting and tearing down telephone calls or other communication sessions. Additionally the SBC can operate as a firewall for the data center . The SBC can monitor communications with the data center and external systems to prevent for example malicious code denial of service DoS attacks or the like. The SBC can also facilitate connectivity between networks such as network application translation NAT traversal SIP normalization network protocol translation e.g. Internet Protocol IPv4 to IPv6 translation quality of service QoS control or the like.

The MT service can communicate with a switch of the MT PBX . The switch can control signaling to and from the MT service . The MT PBX can include a trunk switch e.g. a SIP trunk switch configured to connect the MT service to external systems via the switch .

In some examples a remote site e.g. a mobile site can communicate with the data center . The remote site can include a remote RO such as a mobile phone e.g. a wireless phone or a smart phone a virtual phone e.g. software executing on a computer a desktop phone or the like. The remote RO can communicate with the switch via the SBC . Additionally in some examples the remote RO can traverse an external network such as a carrier network and or the Internet to reach the SBC . The remote RO can also be authenticated and registered for operation within a given premises such as by communicated with the PBX via a network.

The MT PBX can also include a director configured to control assignment of DNs e.g. extension numbers and or direct dial numbers to services and or ROs e.g. the remote RO associated with the data center . Additionally the director of the MT PBX can be configured to associate profiles with the DNs. A directory of the data center stored at the MT PBX can include the profiles and the associated DNs as well as other information.

The data center can include a multi tenant management service MTMS . The MTMS can be configured to setup and maintain services and communication between the K number of premises the data center and or the remote site . The MTMS can also be configured to perform billing operations related to the deployment and implementation of such services. In some examples the MTMS can include a web portal that can be accessed through the Internet. The web portal can provide a graphical user interface GUI that can allow a user to select features and or services that are to be provided to a system. Additionally the web portal can allow only a subset of profiles and or extensions of particular premises to access the selected features and or services. In one example a user of the first premises can access the web portal of the MTMS to select a particular service e.g. a selected service and a time frame that the selected service is to be provided the first premises .

As noted the PBX can implement OSEs to allow the PBX to route calls to DNs extensions that are outside of the first premises . The OSE can be implemented as a mechanism that facilitates call routing between the MT PBX and the PBX . In some examples the users of a given RO can dial a DN and can be routed to another communication endpoint e.g. the remote RO without dialing a system ID or an associated prefix followed by the DN of the other communication endpoint. For example in some situations the PBX can be configured to recognize situations when the inclusion of the system ID is needed and the PBX and or the MT PBX can prepare the system ID and prepend the system ID to the DN that the user dials. In such a situation the prepending might be executed before a call leaves the trunk switch of the PBX or the trunk switch of the MT PBX depending on the direction of the call. Alternatively the prepending might be executed when the call enters a local PBX. Accordingly from a perspective of a user of the given RO the number dialed by the user e.g. the DN does not change whether the other RO is a local RO or a remote RO e.g. a cloud RO .

In some examples the remote site can implement a SIP tie trunk or other protocol on the PBX of the first premises or other premises . In such a situation OSE ranges for that trunk can be automatically synchronized with the list of federated DNs e.g. a directory . For instance as federated users are provisioned on the MT PBX a corresponding federated DN can be automatically added. The capacity of the SIP trunk switch for the tie trunk can be provided by the PBX of the first premises . In addition DNs on either the first premises or the remote site can be exposed via OSE. For example if a Hunt Group is defined on the MT PBX then the Hunt Group can be exported to the PBX of the first premises and an OSE entry can be created for the Hunt Group at the PBX of the first premises .

Similarly DNs on the PBX of the first premises can be exported to the MT PBX and a corresponding MT PBX trunk group for the tenant associated with the first premises can be adjusted. The OSE manipulation can include automatic insertion and or removal of the system ID and an associated prefix as necessary. Moreover the PBX of the first premise can add modify one or more trunk groups that can be designated in the director as the tie to a hybrid system where the remote site is considered a cloud based tenant . Further the trunk groups associated with a particular tenant can be marked with a tenant identifier TenantID by the MT PBX such that DNs on another system can be created as OSEs for these trunk groups.

In some examples MTMS can be implemented as a billings and operations support services BOSS . For instance the MTMS can be configured to control configuring and provisioning the MT service configuring devices and components in the data center and supporting business operations for customers such as by supporting processes processing bills and collecting payments. The MTMS can be configured to facilitate synchronization between the director of the MT PBX and the director of the PBX of the first premises or other premises . Such synchronization can include for example the exchanging of information e.g. a directory and or a dial plan of a tenant and or the data center via an authenticated HTTPS session controlled by the MTMS or another protocol such as SIP. In some examples the MTMS can be configured to establish and manage an account for each of the tenants and or for specific users of the tenants . For instance the MTMS can generate an account ID for a new customer that can be provided through the web portal to one or more authorized users for use in establishing services in the data center . Data associated with the given account can be stored in an account database such as part of configuration data for the account.

The level of services provided to each tenant can be controlled according to a service level agreement between a host entity of the data center e.g. a business and the entity in control over the tenant e.g. another business or a person . The MTMS can be configured to track usage by each of the tenants of the respective ROs and or the remote RO and store such usage in account data in the account database. The account data can in turn be tracked for billing services depending upon a subscription and or other ways in which the premises based system contracts for use of the hosted resources.

In a first example hereinafter the first example the user can employ the web portal of the MTMS to select a service namely a unified communications bridge for the first premises . Additionally in the first example the time frame can be 24 hours and only the first RO of the N number of ROs is permitted to access the selected service. In some examples the user can also agree upon payment terms which could be per use fees per hour fees or the like. In response an engine of the MTMS can query the director of the PBX at the first premises for the dial plan of the first premises . The engine can include for example an application programming interface API that can be employed to access functions or methods programmed to control operations of the MTMS . In response the director of the first premises can provide the dial plan of the first premises to the MTMS .

The engine of the MTMS can be configured to analyze the dial plan of the first premises to determine if the dial plan of the first premises is compatible with the dial plan of MT PBX . For example in some situations the data center may have a plurality of MT PBX s. In such a situation each PBX may be configured to interoperate with a particular MT PBX . For example if the PBX of the first premises has a dial plan that defines a 3 digit extension length the PBX may be configured to interoperate with a given MT PBX . In another example if the PBX of the first premises includes a dial plan that defines a 4 digit extension length the PBX of the first premises may be configured to interoperate with another MT PBX .

The engine of the MTMS can assign a system identifier ID to the dial plan. The system ID can be unique to the first premises . The system ID can be associated with for example an extension prefix or suffix added for each DN of the dial plan. Moreover in some situations the same system ID can be associated with multiple extension prefixes or suffixes. Thus the system ID can be determined from a given prefix or suffix and vice versa. For instance if the PBX of the first premises employs a three digit extension configuration the system ID can be associated with a two digit extension e.g. a prefix . It is noted that the number of digits in the prefix associated with the system ID can vary based on the K number of premises that communicate with the data center . The system ID e.g. associated with the extension prefix and the DN collectively can be referred to as a federated DN. The engine of the MTMS can generate a federated directory for the first premises that includes each federated DN as well as profiles of the first premises such that each of the ROs at the first premises can be uniquely identified. Moreover a federated dial plan for the first premises can be generated by the engine and can include for example the rules for assigning DNs to ROs of the first premise as well as the DNs and the associated system ID.

Referring back to the engine of the MTMS can communicate with the director of the MT PBX to provide the federated dial plan for the first premises . Additionally the engine of the MTMS can configure the MT service e.g. the unified communications bridge for the first premises . In the first example the engine of the MTMS can push the list of permitted extension numbers and or direct dial numbers e.g. the first RO and the federated dial plan to the MT service . Additionally the engine of the MTMS can extract relevant access information e.g. username password DNs or the like for the MT service . The engine of the MTMS can push the relevant information to the director along with a federated DN e.g. a system ID and a DN for the MT service to the director of the PBX of the first premises . The director of the MT PBX can be configured to program the trunk switch of the MT PBX such that requests for access to the selected service that are provided by a federated DN of the first premises are routed to the switch and to the MT service the selected service .

Additionally the director of the PBX of the first premises can configure the trunk switch such that requests for access to the federated DN of the selected service are routed to the SBC of the MT PBX to establish bidirectional communication between the trunk switch of the MT PBX and the trunk switch of the PBX of the first premises e.g. via SIP trunking tie trunking or the like .

Accordingly during the time frame in the initial set up through the web portal calls made by the first RO to the federated DN associated with the selected service are routed through the switch and trunk switch of the first premises to the SBC of the data center through the trunk switch and the switch of the MT PBX and to the MT service at the data center . To make the call to the federated DN associated with the selected service a user of the first RO can employ a dialing assistor such as communication software that executes on a computer. Additionally or alternatively the user can dial a system ID e.g. associated with an extension prefix associated with the data center and the DN associated with the selected service. In this manner even if there is another RO of the N number of ROs at the first premises that employs the same DN as the MT service e.g. overlapping DNs conflicts between DNs can be avoided. Additionally the MT service can deny access to ROs that have not been authorized through the web portal for access.

The MT service can provide the selected service to a connected caller e.g. an authorized RO . In the first example the MT service can be configured to provide a unified conference bridge. Thus the MT service can allow the connected caller to establish audio web and or video communication with other communication endpoints including other ROs at the first premises or communication endpoints external to the system . Moreover in some examples the MT service can communicate with the MTMS to record usage and determine billing information that can vary based on terms of a services agreement between the data center and the business entity to which the premises belongs.

Continuing with the first example after the time frame specified during the initial setup the MTMS can configure the MT service to be disabled for the first premises . In such a situation further attempts to access the MT service by the first RO can be denied by the MT service . In some examples the MTMS service may not reconfigure the director to remove access to the MT service such that the selected service can be readily be re instated. In fact in some examples the web portal of the MTMS can provide a menu that allows the selected service to be quickly re instated. In other examples the MTMS can instruct the director of the MT PBX to remove the federated dial plan of the first premises such that the director can reconfigure the trunk switch of the MT PBX . Additionally in the first example another request from another premises e.g. one of premises K can be handled in a similar manner. In this manner the data center can concurrently provide the MT service to multiple tenants .

In a second example hereinafter the second example a user at the first premises can access the web portal of the MTMS to order the MT service which can be a connect service. In the present examples the connect service can facilitate a bridging of premises such as the first premise with another premises and or the remote site such that upon activation of the connect services each of the bridged premises operate as a common tenant . In the second example for such a connect service DNs associated with the Kth premises premises K and the remote RO at the remote site can made accessible to the N number of ROs or in other examples a subset of the N number of ROs for a specific time period e.g. 1 week . In the second example the authorized user e.g. administrator can also agree to billing terms at the web portal of the MTMS . In the second example it is presumed that some of the ROs associated with the first premises and or some of the ROs associated with the Kth premises can be deployed on a cloud such that these ROs can be considered cloud ROs . Additionally in the second example the data center can be operating on a cloud and the remote RO can be considered a cloud RO . In this manner in the second example the system can be hybrid cloud where some hardware e.g. the PBX or some portions thereof can be physically located at a premises e.g. premises deployed equipment . Additionally in the second example some hardware e.g. another PBX can be virtual hardware located in the cloud e.g. cloud deployed equipment such that premises deployed equipment can interoperate with cloud deployed equipment. Accordingly the connect service can be considered a hybrid service that facilitates interoperation of a cloud based system and a premise based system.

In the second example the engine of the MTMS can receive a dial plan for the first premises the Kth premises and the remote site . In response the MTMS can assign a system ID to each of the first premises the Kth premises and the remote site . In some examples where the remote RO is registered for use in one of the premises the system ID of the remote site can be the same as such premises. In other examples the remote RO can be registered for use in multiple premises . In these situations the remote RO can have the system ID associated with the data center or the system ID associated with any such multiple premises . In still other examples the remote RO can have a unique system ID assigned thereto. The system ID can be associated with for example an extension prefix suffix or other identifier that is added to the local DN for a given premises . Accordingly each RO at the first premises the Kth premises and the remote site can have a unique identifier which can include an associated system ID and a DN which unique identifier can form a corresponding federated DN. In the second example the engine of the MTMS can generate a federated dial plan for each of the first premises and Kth premises as well as the remote site . The federated dial plan can include federated DNs that can be employed to uniquely identify each RO of the system as well as rules for assigning DNs to ROs of the system .

The engine of the MTMS can push the federated dial plans to the director of the MT PBX . Additionally the MTMS can push the federated dial plans to the MT service the connect service . Furthermore the engine of the MTMS can push the federated dial plan for the remote site as well as the federated dial plan for the Kth premises to the director of the PBX at the first premises . Similarly the engine of the MTMS can push the federated dial plan for the remote site and the first premises to the director of the Kth premises . In this manner the MT PBX and the PBX at the first and Kth premises and the MT PBX can have a unified directory that includes unique identifiers e.g. the federated DN and or an associated profile of ROs at the first and Kth premises as well at the remote location.

The director of the PBX at the first premises can configure the trunk switch of the PBX such that calls directed to the federated DN associated with either the remote RO or a RO of the Kth premises are routed to the trunk switch of the MT PBX via the SBC of the MT PBX . In a similar manner the director of the Kth premises can configure the trunk switch of the PBX at the Kth premises such that a call to a federated DN associated with either the remote RO or the first premises is directed to the trunk switch of the MT PBX via the SBC of the data center . In some examples the PBX at the first premises may have additional trunks and or trunk switches that are not utilized for federated DNs. In such a situation the director of the PBX at the first premises can configure such trunks and or trunk switches so that it can be determined which trunks and or trunk switches have this capability.

Additionally in the second example the MT service can control the MT PBX e.g. via the switch to cause the director of the MT PBX to program configure the trunk switch to route e.g. via SIP trunking tie trunking or other protocol calls originating from the first or Kth premises to the appropriate RO to provide the selected connect service in the second example. For instance if the first RO of the first premises calls a federated DN of a given RO at the Kth premises the MT service can cause the trunk switch at the PBX of the first premises to connect via the SBC of the data center to the trunk switch of the MT PBX . In response the MT PBX can route the call to the trunk switch of the Kth premises which trunk switch can employ SIP trunking tie trunking or another protocol to establish a connection between the first RO at the first premises and the given RO at the Kth premises such that the selected connect service can be provided. Moreover the MT service can collaborate with the MTMS to implement billing services based upon the agreed to terms specified in a service level agreement.

Further continuing with the second example if the first RO at the first premises dials the federated DN of the remote RO at the remote site the MT service can cause the trunk switch at the PBX to establish a connection via the SBC at the data center with the trunk switch at the MT PBX of the data center . The trunk switch of the PBX and the trunk switch of the MT PBX can establish a trunk e.g. a SIP trunk or a tie trunk . Moreover the trunk switch of the MT PBX can forward signaling to the switch of the MT PBX requesting that a communication session with the remote RO be opened. The switch can control the signaling and establish the communication session with the remote RO that traverses the SBC . Thus a bidirectional communication session between the first RO of the first premises and the remote RO can be established. The bidirectional communication session can provide for communications of audio video and data between participating ROs. Additionally the MT service can communicate with the MTMS to implement the billing services.

In a similar manner in the second example if a user of the remote RO dials the federated DN of the Nth RO of the first premises the MT service can cause the switch of the MT PBX to provide signaling information for the call to the trunk switch of the MT PBX . In response the MT PBX can open a trunk with the trunk switch of the PBX of the first premises . The trunk switch of the PBX of the first premises can cause the switch of the PBX to open a communication session with the Nth RO at the first premises .

In the second example upon expiration of the time frame if any determined at the initial setup the MTMS can cause the MT service to discontinue establishing communication sessions between an RO of the first premises the Kth premises and the remote site . In some examples the MTMS can cause the MT service to simply disable such communication sessions. In other examples the MTMS can cause the MT service and or MT PBX to remove the federated DNs from a directory.

In the first and second examples ROs at the first premises the Kth premise and the remote site can have the same DN extension number while still having different federated DNs system ID plus the extension number such that the first premises the Kth premise and the remote site can have overlapping dial plans. In this manner the data center e.g. a cloud service provider can support multiple customers on a purely cloud system a physical network or a hybrid cloud. Thus as explained the data center can support multiple tenants with overlapping dialing plans e.g. ROs with the same DN since the system ID e.g. associated with an extension prefix can be included in the federated DN.

Additionally as noted by providing the MT service in response to a user request via the web portal of the MTMS the MT service can be provided intermittently. Thus operators of the tenants can avoid purchasing hardware that may only be used infrequently. Moreover since the data center can be implemented on a cloud administration and or maintenance costs related to the MT service can be reduced.

The system provides a great deal of flexibility in design and implementation. For instance in some situations some or all of the tenants may be considered to be pure cloud tenants where only ROs are deployed e.g. physically located at a corresponding premise. In a pure cloud tenant switches and services as well as management of the ROs can be deployed through the data center . Additionally some or all of the tenants may be considered to be hybrid cloud tenants where the ROs and a limited amount of hardware e.g. a trunk switch is deployed at a corresponding premise. Yet further in some situations some or all of the tenants may be considered to be cloud interoperable tenants where a full complement of hardware is deployed at the premise e.g. the PBX and the cloud interoperable tenant can communicate with a cloud RO through the data center in a manner described herein. Still further some or all of the tenants may be considered to be premises based tenants where all hardware and management of a PBX is implemented at a corresponding premises e.g. on site .

The data center could be implemented for example as a computing cloud. In such a situation features of the data center such as the processing unit the network interface and the memory could be representative of a single instance of hardware or multiple instances of hardware with applications executing across the multiple of instances of hardware. Alternatively the data center could be implemented on a single dedicated server.

The data center can communicate with multiple tenants via the network . For example the data center can communicate with K number of premises e.g. the K number of premises illustrated in and or a remote site e.g. the remote site illustrated in . In some examples communications with the multiple tenants can be funneled through a customer access router CAR . The CAR can be implemented as a hardware unit or a software module that can provide and maintain a secure tunnel for communication between a tenant of the multiple tenants and the data center . In some examples each tenant can also include a CAR wherein either the CAR at the data center or the CAR at the tenant can instigate the secure tunnel. Additionally in some examples the CAR at the data center can be a CAR terminator CART that terminates tunnels from the tenants. The CART operating at the data center may operate in a similar or different manner than the CAR operating at the tenant. Thus for purposes of simplification of explanation the terms CAR and CART are used interchangeably. The CAR can communicate with the multiple tenants via the network interface .

Similarly communication from the CAR can be funneled through an SBC of the data center . As noted the SBC can be configured to exert control over the signaling and or media streams involved in setting up conducting and tearing down telephone calls or other types of communication sessions. Additionally the SBC can operate as a firewall for the data center . The SBC can monitor communications with the data center and external systems to prevent for example malicious code denial of service DoS attacks or the like. The SBC can also facilitate connectivity between networks such as NAT traversal SIP normalization network protocol translation QoS control or the like.

The data center can include a MT PBX that controls communication between the data center and a tenant as well as communications between tenants. Moreover in some examples the MT PBX can control communication between an RO e.g. a remote RO and another communication endpoint such as a communication endpoint not associated with the data center e.g. a third party coupled to the PSTN . In such a situation the remote RO could be implemented as a cloud RO.

The MT PBX can include one or more switches that can control signaling to and from the remote RO e.g. a cloud RO and one or more trunk switches of the MT PBX . The remote RO can have for example a DN e.g. an extension assigned thereto. Additionally the remote RO can have a system ID e.g. associated with an extension prefix corresponding to the remote site of the remote RO. In some examples the system ID of the remote site of the remote ID can be the same as the system ID of the data center . In other examples the system ID of the remote site of the remote ID can be the same as the system ID of a corresponding premises in which the remote RO is registered to operate. The system ID and the DN of the remote RO can collectively be referred to as a federated DN.

The one or more trunk switches of the MT PBX can control SIP trunking and or tie trunking to other tenants such as one or more of the K number of premises illustrated in . As noted such communication can be funneled through the SBC the CAR and the network interface . The MT PBX can include a director configured to manage a dial plan of the multiple tenants communicating with the data center . In some examples the director can communicate with a dial plan database DB that can store the DN of each RO of a tenant as well as a system ID e.g. associated with an extension prefix for each RO of each tenant such that the dial plan DB can include a federated DN for each RO of each of the multiple tenants. Additionally in some examples the dial plan DB can specify rules for assigning DNs to ROs. In this manner each RO can be identified from the federated DN or vice versa. In some examples the dial plan DB can be partitioned as an array of federated dial plans wherein each federated dial plan is associated with a different tenant. The director of the MT PBX can also be configured to program the one or more trunk switches and the one more switches based on federated dial plans in the dial plan DB .

The data center can include J number of MT services that could be deployed to the multiple tenants on a per needed basis where J is an integer greater than or equal to one. Each of the J number of MT services can include an API . Each API can be utilized by ROs of authorized tenants to access functions and methods corresponding to the respective services according to terms of service.

For example one of the MT services could be a unified conference bridge. The unified conference bridge can be implemented for example to provide audio and or video conferencing between ROs and other communication endpoints e.g. third parties . Another of the J number of MT services could be an instant messaging service that allows ROs to sends and receive instance messages. The instant messages could be provided for example as short message service SMS messages proprietary text messages or the like. Additionally in some examples another of the J number of MT services could be connect service that can cause the MT PBX to operate as a bridge between multiple tenants such as between a premises and the remote site and or between premises.

Still another of the J number of MT services could be an MT enterprise contact center ECC that can be employed to provide call contact center capabilities for tenants. Additionally or alternatively the MT ECC can be employed to facilitate multimedia call center solutions. In some examples the MT ECC can be implemented to facilitate operation of a call center. In such a situation operations for a call center can include but are not limited to controlling signaling and routing of incoming calls e.g. to an appropriate agent of the call center that can include for example menu selection number identification or the like. In this manner the MT ECC could be configured to provide menu options to an incoming caller e.g. to determine a particular agent or type of agent needed and route based for example on selected menu options the incoming caller to the appropriate RO that could be located at a premises or a remote site.

Still further the call center capabilities can be provided by the MT ECC in terms of call center agents. For example call center agents may reside at the premise and or remote sites. One or more ROs and or one or more Remote ROs may be configured as a call center agent and the MT ECC can further be configured such that calls are routed to the appropriate RO be based upon factors such as the nature of the call or other form of contact the skill of the agent the agent s availability and the like.

In some examples a cloud based MT ECC can deploy services to implement a Hybrid Contact Center. In one example a standalone PBX ECC system can be implemented or each tenant by the cloud based MT ECC and the standalone system can federate with a premises based system via SIP tie trunks. In this situation agents can remain registered at the PBX of the premises. Enhancements could be recommended to SIP trunking to exchange call global unique identifiers GUIDs and to expose premise transfer conference activity to the cloud based MT ECC.

In another example the MT ECC can attach ECC services to a hybrid MT PBX e.g. the MT PBX . In this situation no enhancements are needed and hybrid agents can be implemented as federated users registered with the MT PBX . In contrast to an entire PBX with a SIP switch for each customer this approach recommends just a single ECC per tenant customer .

The data center can include a MTMS that can facilitate administration of the J number of MT services via the API of the J number of MT services . The MTMS can include a publicly accessible web portal . The web portal can include a user login. The web portal can provide for example a GUI. Upon logging in a user of one of the multiple tenants such as a premises can request that a selected service or more than one service of the J number of MT services be provided to the premises. Additionally the user can provide a time frame to provide the selected service as well as a list of users and or ROs authorized to employ the selected MT service .

In response an engine of the MTMS can request a dial plan from the premises. The engine of the MTMS can be implemented for examples as a service management engine and or a service control engine. The engine can also include an API configured to control functionality of the engine . In response to the request for the dial plan a dial plan can be provided from a PBX of the premises to the engine of the MTMS . In some examples the engine of the MTMS can add a system ID e.g. associated with an extension prefix to DNs within the dial plans for each of the ROs in the dial plan to form a federated dial plan that includes federated DNs for each of the ROs. Additionally the engine of the MTMS can configure the selected MT service via the engine of the selected MT service to deploy the selected service to the appropriate premises and ROs. Moreover the engine of the MTMS can extract relevant information e.g. username password a federated DN or the like from the engine of the selected MT service .

Moreover the engine of the MTMS can also push the dial plan with the federated DNs to the director of the MT PBX . In response the director can write the federated dial plan into the dial plan DB . Additionally the director can provide the engine of the MTMS with a list of federated DNs needed to implement the selected service. For instance the federated DNs can include a federated DN for a conference bridge a federated DN for the ECC a list of federated DNs for RO selected in another premises or remote site or the like.

In response to the list of federated DNs needed to implement the selected service the engine of the MTMS can push the federated DNs extracted from the selected MT service to the director of the PBX at the premises or other tenant as well as other relevant information extracted from the selected MT service . Additionally the director of the MT PBX can program configure the one or more trunk switches to route calls from DNs in the federated dial plan associated with the premises to an appropriate destination e.g. the selected service .

For example upon receiving an incoming call to a federated DN associated with the selected MT service the one or more trunk switches can route the incoming call to the selected MT service via the one or more switches associated with the selected MT service . The selected MT service can examine the incoming call to determine whether the RO or other communication endpoint has authorization to access the selected MT service . If authorization is allowed the selected MT service can be provided to the incoming call. This can continue until expiration of the time frame selected by the user during setup of the selected MT service . Additionally or alternatively MT service can disable the providing of the selected MT service prior to the expiration of time. Such a situation can arise for example due to an agreement to terminate of the MT service early abuse unauthorized access payment disputes or the like.

Upon expiration of the time frame the engine of the MTMS can signal the engine of the selected MT service to disable the selected service. In response the MT service can disallow further requests for the selected service so that the routing of calls can be easily reinstated at a later time. Additionally in some examples the director can program the one or more trunk switches to discontinue the routing of calls to the selected MT service and or routing of calls to other ROs. In some examples the director can be configured to remove the federated dial plan associated with the premises from the dial plan DB .

By employing the data center each of the J number of MT services can be provided to each of the multiple tenants or some subset thereof of the data center concurrently. Moreover by including the system ID as part of the federated DN for each RO ROs at different tenants can have the same DN e.g. overlapping dial plans without conflict. Additionally as noted the data center can be implemented on a cloud computing environment or in a standard network environment. Moreover one or more of the multiple tenants can also be implemented in a cloud computing environment and one or more of the multiple tenants can be implemented as physical hardware e.g. in a physical network environment . Thus the data center can be implemented in a pure cloud computing environment a pure physical network environment or a hybrid cloud environment.

In view of the foregoing structural and functional features described above example methods will be better appreciated with reference to . While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the example methods of are shown and described as executing serially it is to be understood and appreciated that the presence examples are not limited by the illustrated order as some actions could in other examples occur in different orders multiple times and or concurrently from that shown and described herein. Moreover it is not necessary that all described actions be performed to implement a method. The example methods of can be implemented as instructions stored in a non transitory machine readable medium. The instructions can be accessed by a processing resource e.g. one or more processor cores and executed to perform the methods disclosed herein.

At a dial plan can be received e.g. at the MTMS from a director of a PBX e.g. the director of that includes the DNs associated with ROs at the premises. At a federated dial plan can be generated e.g. by the MTMS for the premises that includes a list of federated DNs e.g. a system ID and a corresponding DN for each RO at the premises.

At the selected service e.g. one or more of the J number of services illustrated in can be configured e.g. by the MTMS . In particular the MTMS can indicate the selected time frame and the list of ROs that are authorized to access the selected service. At a director e.g. the director of of an MT PBX e.g. the MT PBX of can be configured e.g. by the MTMS . The configuration of the director can include for example pushing the federated dial plan to the director. At a trunk switch e.g. the one or more trunk switches of can be programmed and or configured e.g. by the director to implement SIP trunking and or tie trunking to route calls from the federated DNs of the premises or some subset thereof to the selected service.

At a federated DN for the selected service can be provided e.g. by the director of the MTMS to the director of the PBX at the premises. At incoming calls directed to the federated DN associated with the selected service can be routed e.g. by the trunk switch of the MT PBX to the selected service. At a determination can be made e.g. by the MTMS as to whether time has expired based on the time frame selected at . If the determination at is negative e.g. NO the method can proceed to . If the determination at is positive e.g. YES the method can proceed to .

At the selected service can be provided to the caller routed to the selected service at e.g. by the selected service . The selected service could be for example a unified conference bridge instant messaging connect service an ECC or the like. The providing of the selected services can include for example allocation of resources e.g. software and or hardware resources at the enterprise system to the caller to implement the selected service. For instance providing of the selected service can include operations related to interaction with the caller and or controlling operations of other systems e.g. the MT PBX to route the caller to another destination. Providing of the selected service can also include for example a recording of billing information based on the services rendered and the method can return to . At the selected service can be disabled e.g. by the MTMS . In some examples the MTMS can simply notify the director and or the selected service to discontinue routing calls and or providing the selected service. In this manner configuration for the selected service can be retained thereby allowing the selected service to be easily re enabled at a later time.

In view of the foregoing structural and functional description those skilled in the art will appreciate that portions of the systems and method disclosed herein may be embodied as a method data processing system or computer program product such as a non transitory computer readable medium. Accordingly these portions of the approach disclosed herein may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment e.g. in a non transitory machine readable medium or an embodiment combining software and hardware. Furthermore portions of the systems and method disclosed herein may be a computer program product on a computer usable storage medium having computer readable program code on the medium. Any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized including but not limited to static and dynamic storage devices hard disks optical storage devices and magnetic storage devices.

Certain embodiments have also been described herein with reference to block illustrations of methods systems and computer program products. It will be understood that blocks of the illustrations and combinations of blocks in the illustrations can be implemented by computer executable instructions. These computer executable instructions may be provided to one or more processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus or a combination of devices and circuits to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor implement the functions specified in the block or blocks.

These computer executable instructions may also be stored in computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory result in an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks.

What have been described above are examples. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of structures components or methods but one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that many further combinations and permutations are possible. Accordingly the invention is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the scope of this application including the appended claims. Where the disclosure or claims recite a an a first or another element or the equivalent thereof it should be interpreted to include one or more than one such element neither requiring nor excluding two or more such elements. As used herein the term includes means includes but not limited to and the term including means including but not limited to. The term based on means based at least in part on.

