---

title: Systems and methods using reputation or influence scores in search queries
abstract: One or more processors determine reputation scores for one or more subjects based on connections. One or more processors use a plurality of citations, with each citation representing an expression of opinion or description by a subject on an object. One or more processors select a subset of citations for each object from the citations citing each object. The content of the citations matches one or more search terms for a search query. One or more processors assign citation scores to a subset of a plurality of objects. The citation scores indicate relevance of the objects cited by citations and are determined based at least in part on matching one or more search terms with the content of the citations of the objects by the one or more subjects. The selection scores for an object are determined for each search query based on a subset of subjects citing the object.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09135294&OS=09135294&RS=09135294
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 09135294
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140131
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Ser. No. 12 628 791 which is a non provisional of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 200 664 filed Dec. 1 2008 and which is also a continuation in part of U.S. Ser. No. 11 809 489 filed Jun. 1 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 831 536 . All applications above are fully incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

The present invention is directed to systems and methods for search queries and more particularly to systems and methods that use reputation or influence scores in search queries.

Knowledge is increasingly more germane to our exponentially expanding information based society. Perfect knowledge is the ideal that participants seek to assist in decision making and for determining preferences affinities and dislikes. Practically perfect knowledge about a given topic is virtually impossible to obtain unless the inquirer is the source of all of information about such topic e.g. autobiographer . Armed with more information decision makers are generally best positioned to select a choice that will lead to a desired outcome result e.g. which restaurant to go to for dinner . However as more information is becoming readily available through various electronic communications modalities e.g. the Internet one is left to sift through what is amounting to a myriad of data to obtain relevant and more importantly trust worthy information to assist in decision making activities. Although there are various tools e.g. search engines community boards with various ratings there lacks any indicia of personal trustworthiness e.g. measure of the source s reputation and or influence with located data.

Currently a person seeking to locate information to assist in a decision to determine an affinity and or identify a dislike can leverage traditional non electronic data sources e.g. personal recommendations which can be few and can be biased and or electronic data sources such as web sites bulletin boards blogs and other sources to locate sometimes rated data about a particular topic subject e.g. where to stay when visiting San Francisco . Such an approach is time consuming and often unreliable as with most of the electronic data there lacks indicia of trustworthiness of the source of the information. Failing to find a plethora or spot on information from immediate non electronic and or electronic data source s the person making the inquiry is left to make the decision using limited information which can lead to less than perfect predictions of outcomes results and can lead to low levels of satisfaction undertaking one or more activities for which information was sought.

Current practices also do not leverage trustworthiness of information or stated differently attribute a value to the reputation of the source of data e.g. referral . With current practices the entity seeking the data must make a value judgment on the reputation of the data source. Such value judgment is generally based on previous experiences with the data source e.g. rely on Mike s restaurant recommendations as he is a chef and Laura s hotel recommendations in Europe as she lived and worked in Europe for 5 years . Unless the person making the inquiry has an extensive network of references from which to rely to obtain desired data needed to make a decision most often the person making the decision is left to take a risk or roll the dice based on best available non attributed non reputed data. Such a prospect often leads certain participants from not engaging in a contemplated activity.

Reputation accrued by persons in such a network of references is subjective. In other words reputation accrued by persons in such a network of references appear differently to each other person in the network as each person s opinion is formed by their own individual networks of trust.

Real world trust networks follow a small world pattern that is where everyone is not connected to everyone else directly but most people are connected to most other people through a relatively small number of intermediaries or connectors . Accordingly this means that some individuals within the network may disproportionately influence the opinion held by other individuals. In other words some people s opinions may be more influential than other people s opinions.

Influence has been provided for augmenting reputation which may be subjective. In some embodiments influence is provided as an objective measure. For example influence can be useful in filtering opinions information and data. Although reputation and influence provide advantages in accordance with some embodiments for the ranking of individuals or products or services of any type in any means or form there are some drawbacks and limitations.

There is a need for improved systems and methods that use reputation or influence scores in search queries . . . .

An object of the present invention is to provide improved systems and methods that enable a person to obtain information useful in search queries.

There is a further need to provide improved systems and methods that use reputation or influence scores in search queries.

These and other objects of the present invention are achieved in a system of ranking entities using reputation or influence scores. One or more processors determine reputation scores for one or more subjects based on connections. One or more processors use a plurality of citations with each citation representing an expression of opinion or description by a subject on an object. One or more processors select a subset of citations for each object from the citations citing each object. The content of the citations in the selected subset matches one or more of search terms for a search query. One or more processors assign citation scores to a subset of a plurality of objects. The citation scores indicate relevance of the objects cited by citations and are determined based at least in part on matching one or more search terms with the content of the citations of the objects by the one or more subjects. The selection scores for an object are determined for each search query based on a subset of subjects citing the object. One or more processors combine the citation scores for the objects and the reputation scores for the subjects citing the objects to calculate selection scores for the objects determined based on matching of the one or more search terms with the content of the citations. The selection scores for an object determine for each search query are based on a subset of subjects citing the object. One or more processors select and rank the objects based on the selection scores of the objects. A different ranking is computed for a same set or overlapping sets of objects when the search query is different.

In another embodiment of the present invention a method of ranking entities uses reputation or influence scores. A processor is used to determine reputation scores for one or more subjects based on connections. A plurality of citations for provided. Each citation represents an expression of opinion or description by a subject on an object. A processor is used to select a subset of citations for each object from the citations citing each object. The content of the citations in the selected subset matches one or more of search terms for a search query. Citation scores are assigned to a subset of a plurality of objects. The citation scores indicate relevance of the objects cited by citations and are determined based at least in part on matching one or more search terms with the content of the citations of the objects by the one or more subjects. The selection scores for an object are determined for each search query based on a subset of subjects citing the object. The citation scores for the objects and the reputation scores are combined for the subjects citing the objects to calculate selection scores for the objects determined based on matching of the one or more search terms with the content of the citations. The selection scores for an object are determined for each search query based on a subset of subjects citing the object with the subjects in the subset being the subjects of previously selected subsets of citations to each object. A different selection score is computed for the same object when a different search query is provided. Objects are ranked based on the selection scores of the objects. A different ranking is computed for a same set or overlapping sets of objects when the search query is different.

It will be appreciated that the systems and methods of the present invention can be implemented in numerous ways including as a process an apparatus a system a computer program product embodied on a computer readable storage medium and or a processor such as a processor configured to execute instructions stored on and or provided by a memory coupled to the processor. In this specification these implementations or any other form that the invention may take may be referred to as techniques. In general the order of the steps of disclosed processes may be altered within the scope of the invention. Unless stated otherwise a component such as a processor or a memory described as being configured to perform a task may be implemented as a general component that is temporarily configured to perform the task at a given time or a specific component that is manufactured to perform the task. As used herein the term processor refers to one or more devices circuits and or processing cores configured to process data such as computer program instructions.

The present invention provides improved systems and methods that use reputation or influence scores in search queries and decision making. In one embodiment systems and methods are provided that allow for the use of reputation scores and or influence scores to determine at least in part and or in combination with other methods and systems the ranking of any subset of individual entities in a given set of entities. As a non limiting example the he entities can include any of the following documents on the Internet products services data files legal or natural persons or any entities in any form or means that can be represented within the computer network. The systems and methods described herein in accordance with some embodiments provide that a subset of the ranked entities are made available based on selection criteria such as rank date or time geography location associated with the entity and or any other selection criteria. The systems and methods described herein in accordance with some embodiments provide that the influence and or reputation are estimated using any technique including but not limited to the various techniques described herein.

The systems and methods described herein in accordance with some embodiments provide for the use of reputation scores and or influence scores to determine at least in part in combination with other methods and systems the ranking of any subset of individual entities in a given set of entities in which the entities include natural or legal persons or other entities such as computational processes documents data files or any form of product or service or information of any means or form for which a representation has been made. In some embodiments the measures of influence and reputation are on dimensions that for example are related to a specific topic e.g. automobiles or restaurants or source e.g. a weblog or Wikipedia entry or news article or Twitter feed or search term e.g. key words or phrases specified in order to define a subset of all entities that match the search term s in which a subset of the ranked entities are made available based on selection criteria such as the rank date or time or geography location associated with the entity and or any other selection criteria.

An illustrative implementation of systems and methods described herein in accordance with some embodiments includes a social graph of individuals on the Internet as shown in in which the individuals represent natural or legal persons and the documents e.g. 1 and 2 represent natural or legal persons or other entities such as computational processes documents data files or any form of product or service or information of any means or form for which a representation has been made within the computer network within this system.

In some embodiments the social graph is directed e.g. a directed graph . In some embodiments the social graph is undirected e.g. an undirected graph .

In some embodiments the social graph is explicit with individuals expressing a link to other individuals. In some embodiments the social graph is implicit with techniques for identifying the links between individuals such as trust respect positive or negative opinion.

In some embodiments the links or edges of the social graph represent different forms of association including for example friendship trust acquaintance and the edges on the graph are constrained by dimensions representing ad hoc types including but not limited to subjects fields of interest and or search terms.

In some embodiments the nodes of the social graph represent people or other entities e.g. web pages authors reviewers users of micro blogging services such as Twitter users of social networks such as MySpace or Facebook bloggers and or any other entity that include expressions of opinion reviews or other information useful for the estimation of influence and that each node on the graph represents an influential entity once influence for that node has been for example estimated.

In some embodiments the nodes are placed in two categories as subjects capable of having an opinion or making a citation in which such expression is explicit expressed implicit or imputed through any other technique and as objects about which subjects have opinions or make citations in which for example certain objects are also subjects and in which an object has reputation scores indicating the possibly collective opinion of subjects on the object and subjects have influence scores indicating the degree to which the subject s opinion influences other subjects.

In some embodiments in which nodes are in two categories as described above the reputation scores of objects are uses for the selection and ranking of objects for example weighted by the influence scores of the subjects related to the object for example in combination with other attributes of objects including to semantic or descriptive data regarding the object. In some embodiments the subjects include one or more of the following users of micro blogging services such as Twitter users of social networks such as MySpace or Facebook bloggers and reviewers. In some embodiments the objects include one or more of the following Internet web sites blogs music videos books films and other objects that can be represented with for example a Uniform Resource Identifier URI . In some embodiments the objects include entities that are each associated with a Uniform Resource Identifier URI wherein the subjects include entities representing authors of Internet content or users of social media services including one or more of the following blogs Twitter and reviews on Internet web sites wherein the links are citations of objects from subjects including one or more of the following Tweets blog posts and reviews of objects on Internet web sites.

In some embodiments in an illustrative operation client computing environments and can communicate and cooperate with server computing environment over communications network to provide requests for and receive reputation data and . In the illustrative operation intelligent reputation engine can operate on server computing environment to provide one or more instructions to server computing environment to process requests for reputation data and and to electronically communicate reputation data and to the requesting client computing environment e.g. client computing environment client computing environment or client computing environment . As part of processing requests for reputation data and intelligent reputation engine can utilize a plurality of data comprising verification data community data reputation guidelines and or reputation histories data . Also as shown in client computing environments and are capable of processing content production sharing data and for display and interaction to one or more participating users not shown .

In some embodiments in an illustrative implementation intelligent reputation platform can be electronically coupled to user computing environment and community computing environment via communications network . In some embodiments communications network includes fixed wire e.g. wire line and or wireless intranets extranets and or the Internet.

In some embodiments in an illustrative operation users can interact with a reputation data interface not shown operating on user computing environment to provide requests to initiate a reputation session that are passed across communications network to intelligent reputation platform . In the illustrative operation intelligent reputation platform can process requests for a reputation session and cooperate with interactive verification data store reputation guidelines data store reputation histories data store and community data store to generate a reputation session for use by users and community .

In some embodiments in an illustrative implementation verification data store can include data representative of connections between users and community members . Such data can include but is not limited to connections between users to identify a degree of association for use in generation of reputation data. In the illustrative implementation reputation guideline data store can include data representative of one or more rules for attributing reputations amongst users and community . Reputation histories data store can include one or more generated reputation attributions for use as part of reputation data processing. Community data store can include data representative of community feedback for generated reputation data. For example the data representative of connections can be provided through user input or generated from any number of techniques including but not limited to automated or computer assisted processing of data available on computer networks links expressed or implied between entities on social networking websites user commentary or blogging websites or any other form of document available on the Internet.

In some embodiments in an illustrative implementation sub environments or can represent one or more facets of a reputation target s experience such as work home school club s and or church temple commune. In the illustrative implementation an exemplary reputation target Q can inquire about the reputation of other reputation targets e.g. obtain trusted data for use to assist in making a decision determine an affinity and or identify a dislike . The individual reputations of each of the target participants can be derived according to the herein described techniques e.g. in so that each reputation target is attributed one or more reputation indicators e.g. a reputation score associated for restaurant referrals another reputation score associated for movie referrals another reputation score associated for match making etc. . The reputation indicators can be calculated based on the degree and number of relationships between reputation targets in a given sub environment and or outside of a sub environment. Once calculated an exemplary reputation target Q can query other reputation targets for trusted data e.g. recommendations and or referrals and can process such trusted data according to reputation score of the data source e.g. reputation target .

For example sub environment can represent a place of business sub environment can represent home and sub environment can represent a country club. In some embodiments in an illustrative operation each of the reputation targets of reputation attribution environment can be attributed one or more reputation scores e.g. reputation score for business data reputation score for family data etc. . In the illustrative operation the reputation score for each reputation target for each category e.g. business family social religious etc. can be calculated according to the degree of relationship with other reputation targets and or the number of connections with other relationship targets.

In some embodiments in the illustrative operation reputation target Q can request data regarding a business problem e.g. how to broker a transaction . Responsive to the request the reputation targets of sub environment e.g. reputation target can act as data sources for reputation target Q providing data that can satisfy reputation target Q s request. Additionally other reputation targets who are not directly part of sub environment can also act as data sources to reputation target Q. In this context the reputation score for reputation targets A B C and or D can have a higher reputation score than other reputation targets not part of sub environment as such reputation targets are within sub environment which is focused on business. In the illustrative operation other reputation targets not part of sub environment can have equal or near level reputation scores to reputation targets A B C and or D of sub environment based on the connections with reputation targets A B C and or D and reputation target Q. For example as shown in reputation target I can have a relatively high reputation score as it pertains to business as reputation target I has a number of direct and indirect connections I A I G B I H D I G E D to reputation targets e.g. A B C and or D of sub environment and to inquiring reputation target Q.

It is appreciated that although exemplary reputation attribution environment of is shown have a configuration of sub environments having various participants that such description is merely illustrative the contemplated reputation attribution environment of the herein described systems and methods can have numerous sub environments with various participants in various non described configurations.

In some embodiments in an illustrative operation scores for one or more entities and or can be determined on a network not shown on a given dimension and or . In the illustrative operation an entity and or can be directly linked to any number of other entities and or on any number of dimensions and or e.g. such that each link direct or indirect link can be associated with a score . For example one or more dimension and or can have an associated one or more transitive dimension and or .

In the illustrative operation a directed path on a given dimension between two entities and a source and a target includes a directed link from the source entity e.g. illustratively as all entities and or can be source and or target entities depending on the perspective of the scoring attribution platform as described herein in accordance with various embodiments to an intermediate entity prefixed to a directed path from the intermediate entity to the target entity .

In some embodiments in an illustrative implementation links on the path can be on one or more transitive dimensions and or associated with a given dimension and or . For example to determine a score on a given dimension and or between a source entity and a target entity directed paths on the given dimension and or can be determined through any kind of graph search not shown . In the illustrative operation the individual scores on the one or more links on the one or more paths can be combined to produce one or more resulting scores using various techniques for propagating scores and for resolving conflicts between different scores. For example one or more intermediate entities and or can also be provided with a measure of influence on the dimensions and or based on the universe of source entities e.g. the universe of target entities e.g. and the links between them.

It is appreciated that although reputation scoring environment is shown to have a particular configuration operating to an illustrative operation with a particular number of dimensions transitive dimensions entities direct connections and indirect connections that such description is merely illustrative as the influence calculation within the herein described techniques can employ various dimensions transitive dimensions entities direct and or indirect connections having various configurations and assemblages operating according to other illustrative operations.

In some embodiments in an illustrative implementation the processing of can be performed such that for a population of entities a method of determining scores each within the range R which can be mapped to the values 1 . . . 1 for a target entity connected to a source entity on a network that can be conceptually represented as a directed graph on each given dimension such that an entity can be directly uni directionally linked to any number of other entities on any number of dimensions with each direct link having an associated score within the range R. Further each dimension can have an associated transitive dimension and such that a directed path on a given dimension between two entities a source entity and a target entity can be defined as a direct link from the source entity to an intermediate entity prefixed to a directed path from the intermediate entity to the target entity subject to the selected constraints including but not limited to 1 a direct link from any entity to the target entity must be on the given dimension and 2 a direct link on the path from any entity to an intermediate entity that is not the target entity must be either on the transitive dimension associated with the given dimension or on the given dimension itself if the given dimension is itself is a transitive dimension.

Furthermore in the illustrative operation the processing of can include but is not limited to A performing a graph search e.g. using various graph search techniques to identify directed paths from a source entity to a target entity on a given dimension subject to the above definition of a directed path that for example optimally results in a directed graph combining all such identified directed paths. The resulting directed graph for example provides a scoring graph that can be stored separately. In the illustrative operation individual scores can be combined B on each direct link on each path on the scoring graph to produce one or more final scores with or without an associated set of confidence values in the range C 0 . . . 1 for each resulting score for the target entity from the perspective of the source entity. In the illustrative operation the acts A and B can be performed for example in sequence or performed simultaneously when performed simultaneously the combination of individual scores described in act B being performed during the graph search described in act A without the creation of separately stored scoring graph and wherein the graph search performed in act A can be optimized by some combination of scores identified through act B such that the optimization may result in the exclusion of certain paths between the source entity and the target entity.

In some embodiments in an illustrative operation of the herein described techniques using various systems and methods the influence of each entity can for example be estimated as the count of other entities with direct links to the entity or with a path possibly with a predefined maximum length to the entity with or without the count being adjusted by the possible weights on each link the length of each path and the level of each entity on each path.

In some embodiments in an illustrative operation of the herein described techniques using various systems and methods the influence of each entity can be estimated with the adjusted count calculated through the operations described herein transformed into a rank or percentile relative to the similarly measured influence of all other entities.

In some embodiments in an illustrative operation of the herein described techniques using various systems and methods the influence of each entity can be estimated as the count of actual requests for data opinion or searches relating to or originating from other entities entities with direct links to the entity or with a path possibly with a predefined maximum length to the entity such actual requests being counted if they result in the use of the paths originating from the entity e.g. representing opinions reviews citations or other forms of expression with or without the count being adjusted by the possible weights on each link the length of each path and the level of each entity on each path.

In some embodiments in an illustrative operation of the herein described techniques using various systems and methods the influence of each entity can be estimated as the count of actual requests for data opinion or searches relating to or originating from other entities entities with direct links to the entity or with a path possibly with a predefined maximum length to the entity such actual requests being counted if they occur within a predefined period of time and result in the use of the paths originating from the entity e.g. representing opinions reviews citations or other forms of expression with or without the count being adjusted by the possible weights on each link the length of each path and the level of each entity on each path.

In some embodiments in an illustrative operation of the herein described techniques using various systems and methods the influence of each entity can be estimated with the adjusted count calculated through the operations described herein transformed into a rank or percentile relative to the similarly measured influence of all other entities.

In some embodiments in an illustrative operation of the herein described techniques using various systems and methods the influence of each entity can be estimated by applying to it any of several graph metric functions such as centrality or betweenness in which the functions such as centrality or betweenness can be estimated either by relating the entity to the entire graph including all linked entities or by relating the entity to a sub graph including all entities linked to the entities directly or by paths of up to a given length.

In some embodiments the illustrative operations described herein for the calculation of influence can be performed for each dimension separately resulting in one influence measure for each entity for each dimension for all dimensions together resulting in one influence measure for each entity or for any given subgroup of dimensions together applied to any given entity resulting in each entity having as many influence measures as the number of subgroups of dimensions applied to that entity.

In some embodiments in an illustrative operation of the herein described techniques using various systems and methods the influence of each entity as estimated in each of the operations described herein can be adjusted by metrics relating to the graph comprising all entities or a subset of all linked entities. For example such metrics can include the density of the graph defined as the ratio of the number of links to the number of linked entities in the graph such metrics can be transformed by mathematical functions optimal to the topology of the graph especially where it is known that the distribution of links among entities in a given graph may be non linear. An example of such an adjustment would be the operation of estimating the influence of an entity as the number of directed links connecting to the entity divided by the logarithm of the density of the graph comprising all linked entities. Such an operation can provide an optimal method of estimating influence rapidly with a limited degree of computational complexity.

In some embodiments in an illustrative operation of the herein described techniques using various systems and methods in which the influence of entities as estimated in each of the operations described herein can be estimated for separate unconnected graphs and for which such influence estimated for entities in separate unconnected graphs can be adjusted by applying metrics relating to each separate unconnected graph in its entirety as shown in the operation described herein the influence of each entity on one graph thus adjusted can be normalized and compared to the influence of another entity on another graph also thus adjusted. For example such an operation allows for the use of influence measures across separate unconnected graphs.

In some embodiments in an illustrative operation of the herein described techniques using various systems and methods the estimation of influence can be optimized for different contexts and requirements of performance memory graph topology number of entities etc. by any combination of the operations described above in paragraphs above and any similar operations involving metrics including but not limited to values comprising the number of potential source entities to the entity for which influence is to be estimated the number of potential target entities the number of potential directed paths between any one entity and any other entity on any or all given dimensions the number of potential directed paths that include the entity the number of times within a defined period that a directed link from the entity is used for a scoring search or other operation.

In some embodiments in an illustrative implementation of this system applied to the World Wide Web and documents data and information on the Internet such data and information are modeled as shown in as documents or objects and authors or subjects in which subjects are representation of any entities that make citations in which citations include the expression of opinions on other subjects or objects expressions of authors in the form of postings to blogs Wikipedia entries postings to social media such as Twitter or Jaiku postings to websites postings in the form of reviews recommendations or any other form of citation made to mailing lists newsgroups discussion forums comments to websites or any other form of Internet publication in which citations by one subject regarding another subject such as a recommendation of one author by another is treated as representing an expression of trustworthiness for example limited to category or categories identified or imputed and citations by one subject regarding an object such as a recommendation of a website or a restaurant review is treated as representation an expression of opinion or description in which citations are treated as edges on a network where subjects and objects form nodes and where reputation is determined for subjects and objects and influence is determined for subjects and where objects are be identified selected and ranked based on the reputation ascribed to them or the influence of subjects citing objects or the date of the citations or the content of citations matching search terms or the content of documents matching search terms or any computation of rank and selection based on a function of any combination of these variables and additional variables.

In some embodiments in an illustrative implementation of the techniques described herein is implemented as follows in which users can provide text referred to here as search terms and for every object represented such as by a Uniform Resource Locator URL calculations are made for all represented citations of that object in order to determine semantic weights such as term frequency inverse document frequency TF IDF as well as the influence of the author of each such citation of each object and a function of the semantic weight and influence of all citations of each object results in a score for the object on the basis of which a ranking of objects is performed and a ranked list of objects is presented to the user and where the score is used as a threshold for the selection of objects and where other ranking criteria e.g. first last modal median date of citations of the object is used in some combination with the score.

In some embodiments in an illustrative implementation of the techniques described herein provides for the selection score and object ranking as a combination of not only the citation score for objects and the influence score for subjects citing them but an expertise score for each subject citing each such object based on the citations from each subject matching descriptive criteria search terms or ontologically similar terms as a relative share of all citations from that subject and citations from all subjects matching above described descriptive criteria as a relative share of citations from all subjects.

In some embodiments in an illustrative implementation of the techniques described herein provides for the selection score and object ranking as a combination of not only the citation score for objects and the reputation score for subjects citing them but an expertise score for each subject citing each such object based on the citations from each subject matching descriptive criteria search terms or ontologically similar terms as a relative share of all citations from that subject and citations from all subjects matching above described descriptive criteria as a relative share of citations from all subjects.

It is understood that the herein described techniques using various systems and methods are susceptible to various modifications and alternative constructions. There is no intention to limit the herein described systems and methods to the specific constructions described herein. On the contrary the herein described systems and methods are intended to cover all modifications alternative constructions and equivalents falling within the scope and spirit of the herein described techniques using for example various systems and methods.

It should also be noted that the herein described systems and methods can be implemented in a variety of electronic environments including both non wireless and wireless computer environments including cell phones and video phones partial computing environments and real world environments. The various techniques described herein may be implemented in hardware or software or a combination of both. In some embodiments the techniques are implemented in computing environments maintaining programmable computers that include a computer network processor servers and a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. Computing hardware logic cooperating with various instructions sets are applied to data to perform the functions described above and to generate output information. The output information is applied to one or more output devices. For example programs used by the exemplary computing hardware can be implemented in various programming languages including high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. Illustratively the herein described techniques using various apparatus and methods may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language. In some embodiments each such computer program can be stored on a storage medium or device e.g. ROM or magnetic disk that is readable by a general or special purpose programmable computer for configuring and operating the computer when the storage medium or device is read by the computer to perform the procedures described above. In some embodiments the apparatus may also be considered to be implemented as a computer readable storage medium configured with a computer program where the storage medium so configured causes a computer to operate in a specific and predefined manner.

Although the foregoing embodiments have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding the invention is not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways of implementing the invention. The disclosed embodiments are illustrative and not restrictive.

