---

title: Cleaning compositions and emulsions or microemulsions employing extended chain nonionic surfactants
abstract: Synergistic combinations of extended chain surfactants and co-surfactants, emulsions or microemulsions and cleaning compositions incorporating the same are provided. In certain embodiments a surfactant system is disclosed which includes extended nonionic surfactants, and a linker surfactant. This system forms stable emulsions or microemulsions with oils, including non-trans fats and fatty acids and these emulsions or microemulsions are stable, irreversible and can be created at low temperature. The cleaning compositions may include the surfactant system alone, a stable emulsion or microemulsion with oil and the surfactant system, a pre-spotter or other pre-treatment or soft surface and hard surface cleaning compositions comprising the surfactant combination.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09303240&OS=09303240&RS=09303240
owner: ECOLAB USA INC
number: 09303240
owner_city: St. Paul
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140212
---
This is a Continuation application of U.S. Ser. No. 12 884 638 filed Sep. 17 2010 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The invention relates to cleaning compositions and methods of use which employ synergistic combinations of linker co surfactants and extended chain nonionic surfactants. Detergent compositions according to the invention are useful for removing a number of challenging stains such as those from non trans fats and fatty acids through the formation of stable emulsions or microemulsions with such oily and greasy soils.

Surfactants reduce the surface tension of water by adsorbing at the liquid gas interface. They also reduce the interfacial tension between oil and water by adsorbing at the liquid liquid interface. Surfactants are a primary component of most detergents. When dissolved in water surfactants give a product the ability to remove dirt from surfaces. Each surfactant molecule has a hydrophilic head that is attracted to water molecules and a hydrophobic tail that repels water and simultaneously attaches itself to oil and grease in dirt. These opposing forces loosen the dirt and suspend it in the water.

Surfactants do the basic work of detergents and cleaning compositions by breaking up stains and keeping the dirt in the water solution to prevent re deposition of the dirt onto the surface from which it has just been removed. Surfactants disperse dirt that normally does not dissolve in water.

Nonylphenol ethoxylates NPEs are predominantly used as industrial and domestic detergents as a surfactant. However while effective NPEs are disfavored due to environmental concerns. For example NPEs are formed through the combination of ethylene oxide with nonylphenol NP . Both NP and NPEs exhibit estrogen like properties and may contaminate water vegetation and marine life. NPE is also not readily biodegradable and remains in the environment or food chain for indefinite time periods.

An alternative to NPEs are alcohol ethoxylates AEs . These alternatives are less toxic and degrade more quickly in the environment. However it has recently been found that textiles washed with NPE free and phosphorous free detergents containing AEs smoke when exposed to high heat e.g. in a steam tunnel in industrial laundry processes or when ironed.

Surfactants are often incorporated into an oil in water microemulsion to make the products appear more homogenous. These cleaning products contain a variety of different surfactant systems in 5 20 solubilized oil which are then diluted with water prior to use. The surfactant systems generally employed in these cleaning products include a mixture of anionic or non ionic surfactants and a short chain alcohol to help solubilize the oil phase and prevent liquid crystal formation. While short chain alcohols are effective they also contribute to the volatile organic solvent content VOC of the product and pose flammability problems.

As can be seen there is a continuing need to develop effective environmentally friendly and safe surfactants and surfactant systems that can be used in cleaners of all kinds. This is particularly so in light of several new cleaning challenges that have emerged.

Health authorities have recently recommended that trans fats be reduced or eliminated in diets because they present health risks. In response the food industry has largely replaced the use of trans fats with non trans fats. These types of non trans fats are the most difficult to remove from surfaces. The food industry has also experienced an unexplained higher frequency of laundry fires. Formulas and methods of cleaning to better remove non trans fats are prone to cause fire due their substantial heat of polymerization. Non trans fats have conjugated double bonds that can polymerize and the substantial heat of polymerization involved can cause fire for example in a pile of rags used to mop up these non trans fat soils.

As can be seen there is a need in the industry for improvement of cleaning compositions such as hard surface and laundry detergents and particularly the surfactants used therein so that difficult soils can be removed in a safe environmentally friendly and effective manner.

The invention meets the needs above by providing surfactant systems mixtures or blends including extended chain nonionic surfactants in combination with linker co surfactants. The mixtures form stable microemulsions with oils and fatty acids which can be the resultant product such as lubricants sunscreens or triglyceride based products. According to the invention these emulsions or microemulsions are stable irreversible and can be created at low temperature for example room temperature.

In another embodiment the surfactant system or mixture can be used in a cleaning composition to emulsify and precipitate oils and greasy soils such as non trans fats and fatty acids. The surfactant system can be used alone as a pretreatment or as a part of a cleaning composition such as a laundry detergent hard surface cleaner or other emulsion or microemulsion.

The invention has many uses and applications which include but are not limited to laundry cleaning reduction of laundry fires due to non trans fats hard surface cleaning such as manual pot n pan cleaning machine warewashing all purpose cleaning floor cleaning CIP cleaning open facility cleaning foam cleaning vehicle cleaning etc. The invention is also relevant to non cleaning related uses and applications such as dry lubes tire dressings polishes etc. as well as triglyceride based lotions suntan lotions potentially pharmaceutical emulsions and microemulsions.

The surfactant mixture of the invention includes a synergistic combination of one or more extended chain nonionic surfactants combined with one or more linker co surfactants. The linker so surfactants comprise mono and di glycerides and or fatty acid and fatty diacids. This system is highly effective at creating microemulsions with fatty acids and non trans fats at relatively low temperatures. This system can be used in formulations for laundry detergents hard surface cleaners whether alkali or acid based or even by itself as a pre spotting pre soaking agent.

In a further aspect of the present invention a laundry detergent composition is provided which includes the surfactant system of the invention and other detergent components such as builders enzymes and the like. The laundry detergent product being adapted according to the invention to readily dissolve and disperse non trans fats in commercial industrial and personal laundry washing processes or in a pre spotting treatment.

These and other objects features and attendant advantages of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from a reading of the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment and the appended claims.

So that the invention maybe more readily understood certain terms are first defined and certain test methods are described.

As used herein weight percent wt percent by weight by weight and variations thereof refer to the concentration of a substance as the weight of that substance divided by the total weight of the composition and multiplied by 100. It is understood that as used here percent and the like are intended to be synonymous with weight percent wt etc.

As used herein the term about refers to variation in the numerical quantity that can occur for example through typical measuring and liquid handling procedures used for making concentrates or use solutions in the real world through inadvertent error in these procedures through differences in the manufacture source or purity of the ingredients used to make the compositions or carry out the methods and the like. The term about also encompasses amounts that differ due to different equilibrium conditions for a composition resulting from a particular initial mixture. Whether or not modified by the term about the claims include equivalents to the quantities.

The term surfactant as used herein is a compound that contains a lipophilic segment and a hydrophilic segment which when added to water or solvents reduces the surface tension of the system.

An extended chain surfactant is a surfactant having an intermediate polarity linking chain such as a block of poly propylene oxide or a block of poly ethylene oxide or a block of poly butylene oxide or a mixture thereof inserted between the surfactant s conventional lipophilic segment and hydrophilic segment.

The term electrolyte refers to a substance that will provide ionic conductivity when dissolved in water or when in contact with it such compounds may either be solid or liquid.

As used herein the term microemulsion refers to thermodynamically stable isotropic dispersions consisting of nanometer size domains of water and or oil stabilized by an interfacial film of surface active agent characterized by ultra low interfacial tension.

It should be noted that as used in this specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the content clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a composition containing a compound includes a composition having two or more compounds. It should also be noted that the term or is generally employed in its sense including and or unless the content clearly dictates otherwise.

The term hard surface refers to a solid substantially non flexible surface such as a counter top tile floor wall panel window plumbing fixture kitchen and bathroom furniture appliance engine circuit board and dish.

The term soft surface refers to a softer highly flexible material such as fabric carpet hair and skin.

As used herein the term cleaning refers to a method used to facilitate or aid in soil removal bleaching microbial population reduction and any combination thereof.

 Soil or stain refers to a non polar oily substance which may or may not contain particulate matter such as mineral clays sand natural mineral matter carbon black graphite kaolin environmental dust etc.

As used herein the term cleaning composition includes unless otherwise indicated detergent compositions laundry cleaning compositions hard surface cleaning compositions and personal care cleaning compositions for use in the health and beauty area. Cleaning compositions include granular powder liquid gel paste bar form and or flake type cleaning agents laundry detergent cleaning agents laundry soak or spray treatments fabric treatment compositions dish washing detergents and soaps shampoos body washes and soaps and other similar cleaning compositions. As used herein the term fabric treatment composition includes unless otherwise indicated fabric softening compositions fabric enhancing compositions fabric freshening compositions and combinations there of. Such compositions may be but need not be rinse added compositions.

The term laundry refers to items or articles that are cleaned in a laundry washing machine. In general laundry refers to any item or article made from or including textile materials woven fabrics non woven fabrics and knitted fabrics. The textile materials can include natural or synthetic fibers such as silk fibers linen fibers cotton fibers polyester fibers polyamide fibers such as nylon acrylic fibers acetate fibers and blends thereof including cotton and polyester blends. The fibers can be treated or untreated.

Exemplary treated fibers include those treated for flame retardancy. It should be understood that the term linen is often used to describe certain types of laundry items including bed sheets pillow cases towels table linen table cloth bar mops and uniforms. The invention additionally provides a composition and method for treating non laundry articles and surfaces including hard surfaces such as dishes glasses and other ware.

The surfactant system or mixture of the invention employs one or more extended chain surfactants. These are surfactants that have an intermediate polarity poly propylene oxide chain or linker inserted between the lipophilic tail group and hydrophilic polar head which may be anionic or nonionic.

Examples of lipophilic tails groups include hydrocarbons alkyl ether fluorocarbons or siloxanes. Examples of anionic and nonionic hydrophilic polar heads of the extended surfactant include but are not necessarily limited to groups such as polyoxyethylene sulfate ethoxysulfate carboxylate ethoxy carboxylate C6 sugar xylitol di xylitol ethoxy xylitol carboxylate and xytol carboxylate and glucose.

Where R is the lipophilic moiety a linear or branched saturated or unsaturated substituted or unsubstituted aliphatic or aromatic hydrocarbon radical having from about 8 to 20 carbon atoms L is a linking group such as a block of poly propylene oxide a block of poly ethylene oxide a block of poly butylene oxide or a mixture thereof x is the chain length of the linking group ranging from 5 15 and y is the average degree of ethoxylation ranging from 1 5.

Anionic extended surfactants generally have the formula R L O CH CH M Where M is any ionic species such as carboxylates sulfonates sulfates and phosphates. A cationic species will generally also be present for charge neutrality such as hydrogen an alkali metal alkaline earth metal ammonium and ammonium ions which may be substituted with one or more organic groups

These extended chain surfactants attain low tension and or high solubilization in a single phase microemulsion with oils such as non trans fats with additional beneficial properties including but not necessarily limited to insensitivity to temperature and irreversibility. For example in one embodiment the emulsions or microemulsions may function over a relatively wide temperature range of from about 20 to about 280 C. alternatively from about 20 to about 180 C. 350 F. .

Many extended chain anionic and nonionic surfactants are commercially available from a number of sources. Table 1 is a representative nonlimiting listing of several examples of the same.

According to the invention a nonionic extended chain surfactant is employed in synergistic combination with a second linker co surfactant. The linker co surfactant is an additive which sticks to or associates with the extended chain nonionic surfactant and links it with the molecules in the bulk phase and hence increase the reach of the surfactant molecules which are adsorbed at interface thus enhancing their performance. Linker co surfactants which may be used according to the invention include mono and di glycerides and or fatty acids and fatty diacids. Suitable fatty acids are saturated and or unsaturated and can be obtained from natural sources such a plant or animal esters e.g. palm kernel oil palm oil coconut oil babassu oil safflower oil tall oil tallow and fish oils grease and mixtures thereof or synthetically prepared e.g. via the oxidation of petroleum or by hydrogenation of carbon monoxide via the Fisher Tropsch process . Useful fatty acids are saturated Cfatty acid saturated Cfatty acids saturated or unsaturated Cfatty acids and a mixture thereof. Examples of suitable saturated fatty acids include captic lauric myristic palmitic stearic arachidic and behenic acid. Suitable unsaturated fatty acids include palmitoleic oleic linoleic linolenic and ricinoleic acid.

Suitable fatty diacids include Diabolic acid 15 16 dimethyltriacontanedioic acid 13 14 dimethyloctacosanedioic acid 15 16 dimethyltriacontanedioic acid and other Biphytanic diacids.

Linker surfactants with a balanced cross sectional area are also beneficial. While not wishing to be bound by any theory applicants postulate that the beneficial use of surfactants with a balanced cross sectional area for example surfactants with a small hydrophilic head and or surfactants with twin or bulky hydrophobic tail s help the overall packing at the water and oil interface towards a more planar interface. Other possible linkers with balanced cross sectional areas include branched alcohol ethoxylates and Guerbet alcohol ethoxylates.

According to the invention emulsions or microemulsions can be formed upon heating that are stable and irreversible i.e. the emulsion or microemulsion does not revert as it cools down. In this embodiment the surfactant system includes approximately 33 wt. nonionic extended chain surfactant 33 wt. water and 33 wt. oil or fatty acid co surfactant .

In a cleaning composition or soil removal and treatment the ratio of nonionic extended surfactant to fatty acid co surfactant is approximately 2 1. When a mono or diglyceride is used the ratio is approximately 7 1 of nonionic extended surfactant to mono or diglyceride.

The surfactant system of the invention is capable of forming emulsions or microemulsions with or in cleaning compositions for removing or treated stains caused by oils and fatty acids including hydrocarbon type oils vegetable oils organic oils mineral oils synthetic oils petrochemical oils volatile essential oils including fatty acids lipids as well as triglycerides.

This feature may be used for removal of the oils in cleaning products or in any other product which requires an oil emulsion or microemulsion such as lubricants suntan lotions pharmaceutical applications hair products such as shampoos gels conditioners and the like Petroleum products such as diesel fuel petrodiesel ethane and other short chain alkanes fuel oils heaviest of commercial fuels used in ships furnaces gasoline petrol jet fuel kerosene and liquefied petroleum gas Lubrication products for various personal and engineering purposes detergents fertilizers medicines paints plastics synthetic fibers and synthetic rubber.

The surfactant system of the invention may be used alone as a pre treatment pre soak or pre spot composition in combination with a traditional detergent or cleaner or may be incorporated within a cleaning composition. The invention comprises both hard surface and soft surface cleaning compositions including the disclosed surfactant system.

In one embodiment the invention employs the surfactant system of the invention an acid source a solvent a water conditioning agent and water to make a hard surface cleaner which will be effective at removing greasy and oily soils from surfaces such as showers sinks toilets bathtubs countertops windows minors transportation vehicles floors and the like. These surfaces can be those typified as hard surfaces such as walls floors bed pans .

A typical hard surface formulation at about 18 activity includes between about 40 wt. and about 80 wt. surfactant system of the invention between about 3 wt. and about 18 wt. water conditioning agent between about 0.1 wt. and about 0.55 wt. acid source between about 0 wt and about 10 wt. solvent and between about 10 wt. and about 60 wt. water.

Particularly the cleaning compositions include between about 45 wt. and about 75 wt. surfactant system of the invention between about 0 wt. and about 10 wt. optional co surfactant between about 5 wt. and about 15 wt. water conditioning agent between about 0.3 wt. and about 0.5 wt. acid source between about 0 and about 6 wt. solvent and between about 15 wt. and about 50 wt. water. In other embodiments similar intermediate concentrations and use concentrations may also be present in the cleaning compositions of the invention.

In a laundry detergent formulation the compositions of the invention typically include the surfactant system of the invention and a builder optionally with an enzyme. Examples of such standard laundry detergent ingredients which are well known to those skilled in the art are provided in the following paragraphs.

While not essential for the purposes of the present invention the non limiting list of additional components illustrated hereinafter are suitable for use in the instant compositions and may be desirably incorporated in certain embodiments of the invention for example to assist or enhance cleaning performance for treatment of the substrate to be cleaned or to modify the aesthetics of the cleaning composition as is the case with perfumes colorants dyes or the like. The precise nature of these additional components and levels of incorporation thereof will depend on the physical form of the composition and the nature of the cleaning operation for which it is to be used. Suitable additional materials include but are not limited to surfactants builders chelating agents dye transfer inhibiting agents viscosity modifiers dispersants additional enzymes and enzyme stabilizers catalytic materials bleaches bleach activators hydrogen peroxide sources of hydrogen peroxide preformed peracids polymeric dispersing agents threshold inhibitors for hard water precipitation pigments clay soil removal anti redeposition agents brighteners suds suppressors dyes fabric hueing agents perfumes structure elasticizing agents fabric softeners carriers hydrotropes processing aids solvents pigments antimicrobials pH buffers processing aids active fluorescent whitening ingredient additional surfactants and mixtures thereof. In addition to the disclosure below suitable examples of such other adjuncts and levels of use are found in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 576 282 6 306 812 B1 and 6 326 348 B1 that are incorporated by reference.

As stated the adjunct ingredients are not essential to Applicants compositions. Thus certain embodiments of Applicants compositions do not contain additional materials. However when one or more additional materials are present such one or more additional components may be present as detailed below 

The liquid detergent herein has a neat pH of from about 7 to about 13 or about 7 to about 9 or from about 7.2 to about 8.5 or from about 7.4 to about 8.2. The detergent may contain a buffer and or a pH adjusting agent including inorganic and or organic alkalinity sources and acidifying agents such as water soluble alkali metal and or alkali earth metal salts of hydroxides oxides carbonates bicarbonates borates silicates phosphates and or metasilicates or sodium hydroxide potassium hydroxide pyrophosphate orthophosphate polyphosphate and or phosphonate. The organic alkalinity source herein includes a primary secondary and or tertiary amine. The inorganic acidifying agent herein includes HF HCl HBr HI boric acid sulfuric acid phosphoric acid and or sulphonic acid or boric acid. The organic acidifying agent herein includes substituted and substituted branched linear and or cyclic Ccarboxylic acid.

The cleaning compositions of the present invention may comprise one or more bleaching agents. Suitable bleaching agents other than bleaching catalysts include photobleaches bleach activators hydrogen peroxide sources of hydrogen peroxide pre formed peracids and mixtures thereof. In general when a bleaching agent is used the compositions of the present invention may comprise from about 0.1 to about 50 or even from about 0.1 to about 25 bleaching agent by weight of the subject cleaning composition. Examples of suitable bleaching agents include 

 1 preformed peracids Suitable preformed peracids include but are not limited to compounds selected from the group consisting of percarboxylic acids and salts percarbonic acids and salts perimidic acids and salts peroxymonosulfuric acids and salts for example Oxzone and mixtures thereof. Suitable percarboxylic acids include hydrophobic and hydrophilic peracids having the formula R C O O O M wherein R is an alkyl group optionally branched having when the peracid is hydrophobic from 6 to 14 carbon atoms or from 8 to 12 carbon atoms and when the peracid is hydrophilic less than 6 carbon atoms or even less than 4 carbon atoms and M is a counterion for example sodium potassium or hydrogen 2 sources of hydrogen peroxide for example inorganic perhydrate salts including alkali metal salts such as sodium salts of perborate usually mono or tetra hydrate percarbonate persulphate perphosphate persilicate salts and mixtures thereof. In one aspect of the invention the inorganic perhydrate salts are selected from the group consisting of sodium salts of perborate percarbonate and mixtures thereof. When employed inorganic perhydrate salts are typically present in amounts of from 0.05 to 40 wt or 1 to 30 wt of the overall composition and are typically incorporated into such compositions as a crystalline solid that may be coated. Suitable coatings include inorganic salts such as alkali metal silicate carbonate or borate salts or mixtures thereof or organic materials such as water soluble or dispersible polymers waxes oils or fatty soaps and 3 bleach activators having R C O L wherein R is an alkyl group optionally branched having when the bleach activator is hydrophobic from 6 to 14 carbon atoms or from 8 to 12 carbon atoms and when the bleach activator is hydrophilic less than 6 carbon atoms or even less than 4 carbon atoms and L is leaving group. Examples of suitable leaving groups are benzoic acid and derivatives thereof especially benzene sulphonate. Suitable bleach activators include dodecanoyl oxybenzene sulphonate decanoyl oxybenzene sulphonate decanoyl oxybenzoic acid or salts thereof 3 5 5 trimethyl hexanoyloxybenzene sulphonate tetraacetyl ethylene diamine TAED and nonanoyloxybenzene sulphonate NOBS . Suitable bleach activators are also disclosed in WO 98 17767. While any suitable bleach activator may be employed in one aspect of the invention the subject cleaning composition may comprise NOBS TAED or mixtures thereof.

When present the peracid and or bleach activator is generally present in the composition in an amount of from about 0.1 to about 60 wt from about 0.5 to about 40 wt or even from about 0.6 to about 10 wt based on the composition. One or more hydrophobic peracids or precursors thereof may be used in combination with one or more hydrophilic peracid or precursor thereof.

The amounts of hydrogen peroxide source and peracid or bleach activator may be selected such that the molar ratio of available oxygen from the peroxide source to peracid is from 1 1 to 35 1 or even 2 1 to 10 1.

In some embodiments the compositions of the invention include an additional surfactant. Additional surfactants can be anionic nonionic cationic zwitterionic and can also include additional extended chain surfactant as discussed herein.

The cleaning composition can contain an additional anionic surfactant component that includes a detersive amount of an anionic surfactant or a mixture of anionic surfactants. Anionic surfactants are desirable in cleaning compositions because of their wetting and detersive properties. The anionic surfactants that can be used according to the invention include any anionic surfactant available in the cleaning industry. Suitable groups of anionic surfactants include sulfonates and sulfates. Suitable surfactants that can be provided in the anionic surfactant component include alkyl aryl sulfonates secondary alkane sulfonates alkyl methyl ester sulfonates alpha olefin sulfonates alkyl ether sulfates alkyl sulfates and alcohol sulfates.

Suitable alkyl aryl sulfonates that can be used in the cleaning composition can have an alkyl group that contains 6 to 24 carbon atoms and the aryl group can be at least one of benzene toluene and xylene. A suitable alkyl aryl sulfonate includes linear alkyl benzene sulfonate. A suitable linear alkyl benzene sulfonate includes linear dodecyl benzyl sulfonate that can be provided as an acid that is neutralized to form the sulfonate. Additional suitable alkyl aryl sulfonates include xylene sulfonate and cumene sulfonate.

Suitable alkane sulfonates that can be used in the cleaning composition can have an alkane group having 6 to 24 carbon atoms. Suitable alkane sulfonates that can be used include secondary alkane sulfonates. A suitable secondary alkane sulfonate includes sodium C Csecondary alkyl sulfonate commercially available as Hostapur SAS from Clariant.

Suitable alkyl methyl ester sulfonates that can be used in the cleaning composition include those having an alkyl group containing 6 to 24 carbon atoms. Suitable alpha olefin sulfonates that can be used in the cleaning composition include those having alpha olefin groups containing 6 to 24 carbon atoms.

Suitable alkyl ether sulfates that can be used in the cleaning composition include those having between about 1 and about 10 repeating alkoxy groups between about 1 and about 5 repeating alkoxy groups. In general the alkoxy group will contain between about 2 and about 4 carbon atoms. A suitable alkoxy group is ethoxy. A suitable alkyl ether sulfate is sodium lauryl ether sulfate and is available under the name Steol CS 460.

Suitable alkyl sulfates that can be used in the cleaning composition include those having an alkyl group containing 6 to 24 carbon atoms. Suitable alkyl sulfates include but are not limited to sodium lauryl sulfate and sodium lauryl myristyl sulfate.

Suitable alcohol sulfates that can be used in the cleaning composition include those having an alcohol group containing about 6 to about 24 carbon atoms.

The anionic surfactant can be neutralized with an alkaline metal salt an amine or a mixture thereof. Suitable alkaline metal salts include sodium potassium and magnesium. Suitable amines include monoethanolamine triethanolamine and monoisopropanolamine. If a mixture of salts is used a suitable mixture of alkaline metal salt can be sodium and magnesium and the molar ratio of sodium to magnesium can be between about 3 1 and about 1 1.

The cleaning composition when provided as a concentrate can include the additional anionic surfactant component in an amount sufficient to provide a use composition having desired wetting and detersive properties after dilution with water. The concentrate can contain about 0.1 wt. to about 0.5 wt. about 0.1 wt. to about 1.0 wt. about 1.0 wt. to about 5 wt. about 5 wt. to about 10 wt. about 10 wt. to about 20 wt. 30 wt. about 0.5 wt. to about 25 wt. and about 1 wt. to about 15 wt. and similar intermediate concentrations of the anionic surfactant.

The cleaning composition can contain a nonionic surfactant component that includes a detersive amount of nonionic surfactant or a mixture of nonionic surfactants. Nonionic surfactants can be included in the cleaning composition to enhance grease removal properties. Although the surfactant component can include a nonionic surfactant component it should be understood that the nonionic surfactant component can be excluded from the detergent composition.

Additional nonionic surfactants that can be used in the composition include polyalkylene oxide surfactants also known as polyoxyalkylene surfactants or polyalkylene glycol surfactants . Suitable polyalkylene oxide surfactants include polyoxypropylene surfactants and polyoxyethylene glycol surfactants. Suitable surfactants of this type are synthetic organic polyoxypropylene PO polyoxyethylene EO block copolymers. These surfactants include a di block polymer comprising an EO block and a PO block a center block of polyoxypropylene units PO and having blocks of polyoxyethylene grafted onto the polyoxypropylene unit or a center block of EO with attached PO blocks. Further this surfactant can have further blocks of either polyoxyethylene or polyoxypropylene in the molecules. A suitable average molecular weight range of useful surfactants can be about 1 000 to about 40 000 and the weight percent content of ethylene oxide can be about 10 80 wt .

Other nonionic surfactants include alcohol alkoxylates. An suitable alcohol alkoxylate include linear alcohol ethoxylates such as Tomadol 1 5 which is a surfactant containing an alkyl group having 11 carbon atoms and 5 moles of ethylene oxide. Additional alcohol alkoxylates include alkylphenol ethoxylates branched alcohol ethoxylates secondary alcohol ethoxylates e.g. Tergitol 15 S 7 from Dow Chemical castor oil ethoxylates alkylamine ethoxylates tallow amine ethoxylates fatty acid ethoxylates sorbital oleate ethoxylates end capped ethoxylates or mixtures thereof. Additional nonionic surfactants include amides such as fatty alkanolamides alkyldiethanolamides coconut diethanolamide lauric diethanolamide polyethylene glycol cocoamide e.g. PEG 6 cocoamide oleic diethanolamide or mixtures thereof. Additional suitable nonionic surfactants include polyalkoxylated aliphatic base polyalkoxylated amide glycol esters glycerol esters amine oxides phosphate esters alcohol phosphate fatty triglycerides fatty triglyceride esters alkyl ether phosphate alkyl esters alkyl phenol ethoxylate phosphate esters alkyl polysaccharides block copolymers alkyl polyglucosides or mixtures thereof.

When nonionic surfactants are included in the detergent composition concentrate they can be included in an amount of at least about 0.1 wt. and can be included in an amount of up to about 15 wt. . The concentrate can include about 0.1 to 1.0 wt. about 0.5 wt. to about 12 wt. or about 2 wt. to about 10 wt. of the nonionic surfactant.

Amphoteric surfactants can also be used to provide desired detersive properties. Suitable amphoteric surfactants that can be used include but are not limited to betaines imidazolines and propionates. Suitable amphoteric surfactants include but are not limited to sultaines amphopropionates amphodipropionates aminopropionates aminodipropionates amphoacetates amphodiacetates and amphohydroxypropylsulfonates.

When the detergent composition includes an amphoteric surfactant the amphoteric surfactant can be included in an amount of about 0.1 wt to about 15 wt . The concentrate can include about 0.1 wt to about 1.0 wt 0.5 wt to about 12 wt or about 2 wt to about 10 wt of the amphoteric surfactant.

The cleaning composition can contain a cationic surfactant component that includes a detersive amount of cationic surfactant or a mixture of cationic surfactants. Cationic co surfactants that can be used in the cleaning composition include but are not limited to amines such as primary secondary and tertiary monoamines with Calkyl or alkenyl chains ethoxylated alkylamines alkoxylates of ethylenediamine imidazoles such as a 1 2 hydroxyethyl 2 imidazoline a 2 alkyl 1 2 hydroxyethyl 2 imidazoline and the like and quaternary ammonium salts as for example alkylquaternary ammonium chloride surfactants such as n alkyl C C dimethylbenzyl ammonium chloride n tetradecyldimethylbenzylammonium chloride monohydrate and a naphthylene substituted quaternary ammonium chloride such as dimethyl 1 naphthylmethylammonium chloride.

Builders The cleaning compositions of the present invention may comprise one or more detergent builders or builder systems. When a builder is used the subject composition will typically comprise at least about 1 from about 5 to about 60 or even from about 10 to about 40 builder by weight of the subject composition. The detergent may contain an inorganic or organic detergent builder which counteracts the effects of calcium or other ion water hardness. Examples include the alkali metal citrates succinates malonates carboxymethyl succinates carboxylates polycarboxylates and polyacetyl carboxylate or sodium potassium and lithium salts of oxydisuccinic acid mellitic acid benzene polycarboxylic acids and citric acid or citric acid and citrate salts. Organic phosphonate type sequestering agents such as DEQUEST by Monsanto and alkanehydroxy phosphonates are useful. Other organic builders include higher molecular weight polymers and copolymers e.g. polyacrylic acid polymaleic acid and polyacrylic polymaleic acid copolymers and their salts such as SOKALAN by BASF. Generally the builder may be up to 30 or from about 1 to about 20 or from abut 3 to about 10 .

The compositions may also contain from about 0.01 to about 10 or from about 2 to about 7 or from about 3 to about 5 of a Cfatty acid as a builder. The fatty acid can also contain from about 1 to about 10 EO units. Suitable fatty acids are saturated and or unsaturated and can be obtained from natural sources such a plant or animal esters e.g. palm kernel oil palm oil coconut oil babassu oil safflower oil tall oil tallow and fish oils grease and mixtures thereof or synthetically prepared e.g. via the oxidation of petroleum or by hydrogenation of carbon monoxide via the Fisher Tropsch process . Useful fatty acids are saturated Cfatty acid saturated Cfatty acids saturated or unsaturated Cfatty acids and a mixture thereof. Examples of suitable saturated fatty acids include captic lauric myristic palmitic stearic arachidic and behenic acid. Suitable unsaturated fatty acids include palmitoleic oleic linoleic linolenic and ricinoleic acid.

Chelating Agents The cleaning compositions herein may contain a chelating agent. Suitable chelating agents include copper iron and or manganese chelating agents and mixtures thereof. When a chelating agent is used the subject composition may comprise from about 0.005 to about 15 or even from about 3.0 to about 10 chelating agent by weight of the subject composition.

Dye Transfer Inhibiting Agents The cleaning compositions of the present invention may also include one or more dye transfer inhibiting agents. Suitable polymeric dye transfer inhibiting agents include but are not limited to polyvinylpyrrolidone polymers polyamine N oxide polymers copolymers of N vinylpyrrolidone and N vinylimidazole polyvinyloxazolidones and polyvinylimidazoles or mixtures thereof. When present in a subject composition the dye transfer inhibiting agents may be present at levels from about 0.0001 to about 10 from about 0.01 to about 5 or even from about 0.1 to about 3 by weight of the composition.

In some embodiments an optical brightener component may be present in the compositions of the present invention. The optical brightener can include any brightener that is capable of eliminating graying and yellowing of fabrics. Typically these substances attach to the fibers and bring about a brightening and simulated bleaching action by converting invisible ultraviolet radiation into visible longer wave length light the ultraviolet light absorbed from sunlight being irradiated as a pale bluish fluorescence and together with the yellow shade of the grayed or yellowed laundry producing pure white.

Fluorescent compounds belonging to the optical brightener family are typically aromatic or aromatic heterocyclic materials often containing condensed ring systems. An important feature of these compounds is the presence of an uninterrupted chain of conjugated double bonds associated with an aromatic ring. The number of such conjugated double bonds is dependent on substituents as well as the planarity of the fluorescent part of the molecule. Most brightener compounds are derivatives of stilbene or 4 4 diamino stilbene biphenyl five membered heterocycles triazoles oxazoles imidazoles etc. or six membered heterocycles cumarins naphthalamides triazines etc. .

Optical brighteners useful in the present invention are known and commercially available. Commercial optical brighteners which may be useful in the present invention can be classified into subgroups which include but are not necessarily limited to derivatives of stilbene pyrazoline coumarin carboxylic acid methinecyanines dibenzothiophene 5 5 dioxide azoles 5 and 6 membered ring heterocycles and other miscellaneous agents. Examples of these types of brighteners are disclosed in The Production and Application of Fluorescent Brightening Agents M. Zahradnik Published by John Wiley Sons New York 1982 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Stilbene derivatives which may be useful in the present invention include but are not necessarily limited to derivatives of bis triazinyl amino stilbene bisacylamino derivatives of stilbene triazole derivatives of stilbene oxadiazole derivatives of stilbene oxazole derivatives of stilbene and styryl derivatives of stilbene. In an embodiment optical brighteners include stilbene derivatives.

In some embodiments the optical brightener includes Tinopal UNPA which is commercially available through the Ciba Geigy Corporation located in Switzerland.

Additional optical brighteners for use in the present invention include but are not limited to the classes of substance of 4 4 diamino 2 2 stilbenedisulfonic acids flavonic acids 4 4 distyrylbiphenyls methylumbelliferones coumarins dihydroquinolinones 1 3 diarylpyrazolines naphthalimides benzoxazol benzisoxazol and benzimidazol systems and pyrene derivatives substituted by heterocycles and the like. Suitable optical brightener levels include lower levels of from about 0.01 from about 0.05 from about 0.1 or even from about 0.2 wt to upper levels of 0.5 or even 0.75 wt .

Dispersants The compositions of the present invention can also contain dispersants. Suitable water soluble organic materials include the homo or co polymeric acids or their salts in which the polycarboxylic acid comprises at least two carboxyl radicals separated from each other by not more than two carbon atoms.

Additional Enzymes The cleaning compositions can comprise one or more enzymes which provide cleaning performance and or fabric care benefits. Enzymes can be included herein for a wide variety of fabric laundering purposes including removal of protein based carbohydrate based or triglyceride based stains for example and or for fabric restoration. Examples of suitable enzymes include but are not limited to hemicellulases peroxidases proteases cellulases xylanases lipases phospholipases esterases cutinases pectinases keratinases reductases oxidases phenoloxidases lipoxygenases ligninases pullulanases tannases pentosanases malanases glucanases arabinosidases hyaluronidase chondroitinase laccase amylases or combinations thereof and may be of any suitable origin. The choice of enzyme s takes into account factors such as pH activity stability optima thermostability stability versus active detergents chelants builders etc. A detersive enzyme mixture useful herein is a protease lipase cutinase and or cellulase in conjunction with amylase. Sample detersive enzymes are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 579 839.

Enzymes are normally present at up to about 5 mg more typically from about 0.01 mg to about 3 mg by weight of active enzyme per gram of the detergent. Stated another way the detergent herein will typically contain from about 0.001 to about 5 or from about 0.01 to about 2 or from about 0.05 to about 1 by weight of a commercial enzyme preparation. Protease enzymes are present at from about 0.005 to about 0.1 AU of activity per gram of detergent. Proteases useful herein include those like subtilisins from e.g. BPN BPN alcalophilus e.g. Esperase Alcalase Everlase and Savinase Novozymes BLAP and variants Henkel . Further proteases are described in EP 130756 WO 91 06637 WO 95 10591 and WO 99 20726.

Amylases are described in GB Pat. 1 296 839 WO 94 02597 and WO 96 23873 and available as Purafect Ox Am Genencor Termamyl Natalase Ban Fungamyl Duramyl all Novozymes and RAPIDASE International Bio Synthetics Inc .

The cellulase herein includes bacterial and or fungal cellulases with a pH optimum between 5 and 9.5. Suitable cellulases are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 435 307 to Barbesgoard et al. issued Mar. 6 1984. Cellulases useful herein include bacterial or fungal cellulases e.g. produced by particularly DSM 1800 e.g. 50 kD and 43 kD Carezyyme . Additional suitable cellulases are the EGIII cellulases from . WO 02 099091 by Novozymes describes an enzyme exhibiting endo beta glucanase activity EC 3.2.1.4 endogenous to sp. DSM 12648 for use in detergent and textile applications and an anti redeposition endoglucanase in WO 04 053039. Kao s EP 265 832 describes alkaline cellulase K CMCase I and CMCase II isolated from a culture product of sp KSM 635. Kao further describes in EP 1 350 843 KSM 5237 1139 KSM 64 KSM N131 EP 265 832A KSM 635 FERM BP 1485 and EP 0 271 044 A KSM 534 FERM BP 1508 KSM 539 FERM BP 1509 KSM 577 FERM BP 1510 KSM 521 FERM BP 1507 KSM 580 FERM BP 1511 KSM 588 FERM BP 1513 KSM 597 FERM BP 1514 KSM 522 FERM BP 1512 KSM 3445 FERM BP 1506 KSM 425. FERM BP 1505 readily mass producible and high activity alkaline cellulases endo glucanases for an alkaline environment. Such endoglucanase may contain a polypeptide or variant thereof endogenous to one of the above species. Other suitable cellulases are Family 44 Glycosyl Hydrolase enzymes exhibiting endo beta 1 4 glucanase activity from Paenibacilus polyxyma wild type such as XYG1006 described in WO 01 062903 or variants thereof. Carbohydrases useful herein include e.g. mannanase see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 060 299 pectate lyase see e.g. WO99 27083 cyclomaltodextrin glucanotransferase see e.g. WO96 33267 and or xyloglucanase see e.g. WO99 02663 . Bleaching enzymes useful herein with enhancers include e.g. peroxidases laccases oxygenases lipoxygenase see e.g. WO 95 26393 and or non heme haloperoxidases.

Suitable endoglucanases include 1 An enzyme exhibiting endo beta 1 4 glucanase activity E.C. 3.2.1.4 with a sequence at least 90 or at least 94 or at least 97 or at least 99 or 100 identity to the amino acid sequence of positions 1 773 of SEQ ID NO 2 in WO 02 099091 or a fragment thereof that has endo beta 1 4 glucanase activity. GAP in the GCG program determines identity using a GAP creation penalty of 3.0 and GAP extension penalty of 0.1. See WO 02 099091 by Novozymes A S on Dec. 12 2002 e.g. Celluclean by Novozymes A S. GCG refers to sequence analysis software package Accelrys San Diego Calif. USA . GCG includes a program called GAP which uses the Needleman and Wunsch algorithm to find the alignment of two complete sequences that maximizes the number of matches and minimizes the number of gaps and 2 Alkaline endoglucanase enzymes described in EP 1 350 843A published by Kao on Oct. 8 2003 0011 0039 and examples 1 4 .

Suitable lipases include those produced by and Chromobacter and LIPOLASE LIPOLASE ULTRA LIPOPRIME and LIPEX from Novozymes. See also Japanese Patent Application 53 20487 laid open on Feb. 24 1978 available from Areario Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. Nagoya Japan under the trade name Lipase P Amano . Other commercial lipases include Amano CES lipases ex available from Toyo Jozo Co. Tagata Japan and lipases from U.S. Biochemical Corp. U.S.A. and Diosynth Co. The Netherlands and lipases ex . Also suitable are cutinases EC 3.1.1.50 and esterases.

Enzymes useful for liquid detergent formulations and their incorporation into such formulations are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 261 868 to Hora et al. issued Apr. 14 1981. In an embodiment the liquid composition herein is substantially free of i.e. contains no measurable amount of wild type protease enzymes. A typical combination is an enzyme cocktail that may comprise for example a protease and lipase in conjunction with amylase. When present in a cleaning composition the aforementioned additional enzymes may be present at levels from about 0.00001 to about 2 from about 0.0001 to about 1 or even from about 0.001 to about 0.5 enzyme protein by weight of the composition.

Enzyme Stabilizers Enzymes for use in detergents can be stabilized by various techniques. The enzymes employed herein can be stabilized by the presence of water soluble sources of calcium and or magnesium ions in the finished compositions that provide such ions to the enzymes. In case of aqueous compositions comprising protease a reversible protease inhibitor such as a boron compound can be added to further improve stability.

A useful enzyme stabilizer system is a calcium and or magnesium compound boron compounds and substituted boric acids aromatic borate esters peptides and peptide derivatives polyols low molecular weight carboxylates relatively hydrophobic organic compounds e.g. certain esters diakyl glycol ethers alcohols or alcohol alkoxylates alkyl ether carboxylate in addition to a calcium ion source benzamidine hypochlorite lower aliphatic alcohols and carboxylic acids N N bis carboxymethyl serine salts meth acrylic acid meth acrylic acid ester copolymer and PEG lignin compound polyamide oligomer glycolic acid or its salts poly hexa methylene biguanide or N N bis 3 amino propyl dodecyl amine or salt and mixtures thereof. The detergent may contain a reversible protease inhibitor e.g. peptide or protein type or a modified subtilisin inhibitor of family VI and the plasminostrepin leupeptin peptide trifluoromethyl ketone or a peptide aldehyde. Enzyme stabilizers are present from about 1 to about 30 or from about 2 to about 20 or from about 5 to about 15 or from about 8 to about 12 millimoles of stabilizer ions per liter.

Catalytic Metal Complexes Applicants cleaning compositions may include catalytic metal complexes. One type of metal containing bleach catalyst is a catalyst system comprising a transition metal cation of defined bleach catalytic activity such as copper iron titanium ruthenium tungsten molybdenum or manganese cations an auxiliary metal cation having little or no bleach catalytic activity such as zinc or aluminum cations and a sequestrate having defined stability constants for the catalytic and auxiliary metal cations particularly ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid ethylenediaminetetra methylenephosphonic acid and water soluble salts thereof. Such catalysts are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 430 243.

If desired the compositions herein can be catalyzed by means of a manganese compound. Such compounds and levels of use are well known in the art and include for example the manganese based catalysts disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 576 282. Cobalt bleach catalysts useful herein are known and are described for example in

U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 597 936 5 595 967. Such cobalt catalysts are readily prepared by known procedures such as taught for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 597 936 and 5 595 967.

Compositions herein may also suitably include a transition metal complex of ligands such as bispidones WO 05 042532 A1 and or macropolycyclic rigid ligands abbreviated as MRLs . As a practical matter and not by way of limitation the compositions and processes herein can be adjusted to provide on the order of at least one part per hundred million of the active MRL species in the aqueous washing medium and will typically provide from about 0.005 ppm to about 25 ppm from about 0.05 ppm to about 10 ppm or even from about 0.1 ppm to about 5 ppm of the MRL in the wash liquor.

Suitable transition metals in the instant transition metal bleach catalyst include for example manganese iron and chromium. Suitable MRLs include 5 12 diethyl 1 5 8 12 tetraazabicyclo 6.6.2 hexadecane.

Suitable transition metal MRLs are readily prepared by known procedures such as taught for example in WO 00 32601 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 225 464.

Solvents Suitable solvents include water and other solvents such as lipophilic fluids. Examples of suitable lipophilic fluids include siloxanes other silicones hydrocarbons glycol ethers glycerine derivatives such as glycerine ethers perfluorinated amines perfluorinated and hydrofluoroether solvents low volatility nonfluorinated organic solvents diol solvents other environmentally friendly solvents and mixtures thereof. In some embodiments the solvent includes water. The water can include water from any source including deionized water tap water softened water and combinations thereof. Solvents are typically present at from about 0.1 to about 50 or from about 0.5 to about 35 or from about 1 to about 15 by weight.

The detergent compositions of the present invention may be of any suitable form including paste liquid solid such as tablets powder granules foam or gel with powders and tablets being preferred. The composition may be in the form of a unit dose product i.e. a form which is designed to be used as a single portion of detergent composition in a washing operation. Of course one or more of such single portions may be used in a cleaning operation.

Solid forms include for example in the form of a tablet rod ball or lozenge. The composition may be a particulate form loose or pressed to shape or may be formed by injection moulding or by casting or by extrusion. The composition may be encased in a water soluble wrapping for example of PVOH or a cellulosic material. The solid product may be provided as a portioned product as desired.

The composition may also be in paste gel or liquid form including unit dose portioned products products. Examples include a paste gel or liquid product at least partially surrounded by and preferably substantially enclosed in a water soluble coating such as a polyvinyl alcohol package. This package may for instance take the form of a capsule a pouch or a moulded casing such as an injection moulded casing etc. Preferably the composition is substantially surrounded by such a package most preferably totally surrounded by such a package. Any such package may contain one or more product formats as referred to herein and the package may contain one or more compartments as desired for example two three or four compartments.

If the composition is a foam a liquid or a gel it is preferably an aqueous composition although any suitable solvent may be used. According to an especially preferred embodiment of the present invention the composition is in the form of a tablet most especially a tablet made from compressed particulate material.

If the compositions are in the form of a viscous liquid or gel they preferably have a viscosity of at least 50 mPas when measured with a Brookfield RV Viscometer at 25 C. with Spindle 1 at 30 rpm.

The compositions of the invention will typically be used by placing them in a detergent dispenser e.g. in a dishwasher machine draw or free standing dispensing device in an automatic dishwashing machine. However if the composition is in the form of a foam liquid or gel then it may be applied to by any additional suitable means into the dishwashing machine for example by a trigger spray squeeze bottle or an aerosol.

The compositions of the invention may be made by any suitable method depending upon their format. Suitable manufacturing methods for detergent compositions are well known in the art non limiting examples of which are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 879 584 5 691 297 5 574 005 5 569 645 5 565 422 5 516 448 5 489 392 and 5 486 303. Various techniques for forming detergent compositions in solid forms are also well known in the art for example detergent tablets may be made by compacting granular particular material and may be used herein.

In one aspect the liquid detergent compositions disclosed herein may be prepared by combining the components thereof in any convenient order and by mixing e.g. agitating the resulting component combination to form a phase stable liquid detergent composition. In one aspect a liquid matrix is formed containing at least a major proportion or even substantially all of the liquid components with the liquid components being thoroughly admixed by imparting shear agitation to this liquid combination. For example rapid stirring with a mechanical stirrer may usefully be employed. While shear agitation is maintained substantially all of any anionic surfactant and the solid ingredients can be added. Agitation of the mixture is continued and if necessary can be increased at this point to form a solution or a uniform dispersion of insoluble solid phase particulates within the liquid phase. After some or all of the solid form materials have been added to this agitated mixture particles of any enzyme material to be included e.g. enzyme prills are incorporated. As a variation of the composition preparation procedure described above one or more of the solid components may be added to the agitated mixture as a solution or slurry of particles premixed with a minor portion of one or more of the liquid components. After addition of all of the composition components agitation of the mixture is continued for a period of time sufficient to form compositions having the requisite viscosity and phase stability characteristics. Frequently this will involve agitation for a period of from about 30 to 60 minutes.

There have been reports of undesirable smoking issues for laundry particularly when a washed fabric comes in contact with a hot iron. This is due to a switch from nonyl phenol ethoxylate NPE based detergents to alcohol phenol ethoxylate APE based detergents. The problem is due to the residual unreacted long chain alcohols which are highly soluble in APE based detergents. It is well known in the surfactant industry that APEs are more monodisperse and have less unreacted alcohol than the AEs because the starting alkyl phenols are more reactive than the starting linear alcohols. The use solution cannot suspend all the highly insoluble unreacted alcohol which deposits onto a washed fabric and can cause smoking when the fabric comes in contact with a hot iron.

The extended surfactants and microemulsions of the present invention undergo two steps of alkoxylation first propoxylation or butoxylation then followed with ethoxylation and therefore have reduced levels of residual unreacted alcohol specifically below 0.1 . Thus after the laundry process the extended surfactants and microemulsions of the present invention leave less residue from the highly insoluble long chain alcohols onto the washed fabric which in turn greatly reduces the smoking when these washed fabrics come in contact with hot irons.

The present invention is more particularly described in the following examples that are intended as illustrations only since numerous modifications and variations within the scope of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Unless otherwise noted all parts percentages and ratios reported in the following examples are on a weight basis and all reagents used in the examples were obtained or are available from the chemical suppliers described below or may be synthesized by conventional techniques. All references cited herein are hereby incorporated in their entirety by reference.

According to the invention it was discovered that two nonionic extended surfactants Plurafac SL 42 and SL 62 formed clear homogeneous microemulsions with extended heating. Furthermore unlike ordinary phase inversion induced microemulsions which revert after the temperature cool down the new microemulsions are not reversible.

These data show that in general both regular and extended surfactants can form microemulsions with hydrocarbon type oils such as hexadecane especially those with a phase inversion temperature which is usually within a few degree of the cloud point matching the study temperature.

It is generally known that it is difficult to form triglyceride based microemulsions. Table 3 shows that while we can form hydrocarbon based microemulsions with a series of surfactants including extended surfactants the same surfactants all fail to form triglyceride based microemulsions.

Table 4 below shows additional surfactants some are extended surfactants that also failed to form triglyceride based microemulsions.

Applicants discovered that two nonionic extended surfactants Plurafac SL 42 and SL 62 could form clear homogeneous microemulsions with extended heating. Furthermore unlike ordinary phase inversion induced microemulsions which revert after the temperature cool down the new microemulsions are not reversible.

Table 5 shows the compositions. The processes of forming the microemulsions are characterized by time of heating temperature and conductivity Tables 6 9 and corresponding . Interestingly all exhibit a general trend with prolonged heating conductivity first increases reaches a peak then drops and stay at a very low level. This suggests initially oil in water nature and eventually water in oil nature with prolonged heating. In these studies the small level of salt was used as a conductivity marker only does not affect the microemulsion formation .

In an effort to optimize the microemulsion forming formulas we have made a series of compositions containing extended surfactants X AES and Plurafac SL 42 and linker surfactant C12 AO soybean oil and various levels of chelating agent. The goal was to find the optimal chelating agent to form soybean oil based microemulsions. From these experiments we have surprisingly discovered that pH decreases significantly with time and some compositions become one phase with time in other words becoming true microemulsions . These data are summarized in Table 10 below. Further more compositions stored at an elevated temperature exhibit similar changes except at a faster rate.

These results suggest that the soybean oil is undergoing hydrolysis forming fatty acids di and mono triglycerides.

We have previously confirmed a slow heat required around 140 180 F virtually irreversible microemulsion formation with

Based on some recent test results that showed potential evidence of hydrolysis of non trans fat during wash at 150 F we speculate that the above described microemulsions may have been aided by the free fatty acids generated from the hydrolysis of the soybean oil. Therefore if we add the appropriate free fatty acid to the composition we may have rapid formation of microemulsions and thus enhanced removal of these non trans fats.

The results are summarized in table 11 below. These results confirm that we can form virtually instantaneous room temperature soybean oil based microemulsions with extended surfactants and fatty acids. Those with very high viscosity and gelling and high conductivity are not considered true microemulsions. The preferred fatty acids are isononanoic acid and dicarboxylic fatty acid because the resultant microemulsions have low viscosities.

The free fatty acids are not very efficient in assisting the formation of microemulsions requiring a high level about of the level of extended surfactants . We also speculated that the level of hydrolysis during the extended heating experiments with no alkalinity described in Section II above is not very extensive therefore the di and mono triglycerides formed from the hydrolysis rather than the free fatty acids may be more responsible.

Some formation of new soybean oil based microemulsions with various non ionic extended surfactants and Tegin as linker co surfactants are summarized in Table 12 16 below. The results clearly show that Tegin ISO is more efficient than the free fatty acids. The ratio of non ionic extended surfactant to Tegin ISO is about 7 1 instead of 2 1 for the free fatty acids 

Table 17 summarizes all soybean oil microemulsion formation data with Ecosurf EH and Lutensol XL non ionic extended surfactants with and without co surfactants. Table 18 separates those of the Ecosurf EH s and Table 19 separates those of the Lutensol XL s. The data clearly show that Ecosurf EH s are preferred over Lutensol XL s forming microemulsion at lower temp and shorter time. It is also clear that the incorporation of Tegin ISO and free fatty acid as co surfactant helps as highlighted in yellow in Table 18.

A series of tests was performed with varying levels of linker co surfactant to determine if the temperature at which the microemulsion forms can be optimized for different systems. For each system the temperature range at which a microemulsion is present was determined.

The systems can be optimized for both the temperature at which the microemulsion can be formed and the temperature range of microemulsion formation with varying amounts of linker surfactant. shows the results of the temperature optimized microemulsions as discussed above.

In a series of tests five nonionic extended surfactants SA 4 SA 7 SL 42 SL 62 and X LAE are compared to some regular non ionic surfactant based systems with tergo screening method. Results are shown in . The results show roughly equal performance.

In a second series of tests the comparison was made with a prespot presoak method. In this method the soiled swatch is prespoted or presoaked with the test surfactant or detergent at room temperature for 24 hours followed by a water only wash at room temperature or 150 F. These results show that the extended surfactants especially SA 7 and SL 42 perform better. The results are depicted graphically in

Commercial Detergent A is an AE based detergent Commercial Detergent B is an NPE based detergent and Commercial Detergent C is an AE based detergent.

In some applications the formation of the non trans fat oil microemulsions is the goal. For example the formation of a triglyceride based or other oil based dry lube to be used for conveyor lubricant. Other examples include triglyceride or other oil based suntan lotion.

Many applications are based on cleaning of non trans fat oil soils from substrate. In these applications the cleaning compositions comprise the non ionic extended surfactant portion and the linker surfactant portion. The linker surfactant portion comprises mono and di glycerides and or fatty acid and fatty diacids.

