---

title: Subscriber management using a restful interface
abstract: A controller provides authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) services for a network, the controller comprising a control unit having one or more processors and a Representational State Transfer (REST) interface executed by the control unit to receive application data that specifies an interface method and a resource identifier for a resource, the resource identifier conforming to a subscriber management resource model. The REST interface determines, based on the resource identifier, a record for a subscriber management construct corresponding to the resource. The REST interface applies, to the record, an action corresponding to the interface method to modify access to the network by a subscriber.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09578028&OS=09578028&RS=09578028
owner: Juniper Networks, Inc.
number: 09578028
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140627
---
The invention relates to computer networks and more specifically to subscriber authentication authorization and accounting within computer networks.

Network service providers typically deploy one or more servers to manage authentication authorization and accounting AAA functionality for networks that offer services to one or more subscribers. The protocol most commonly used by the servers to communicate with clients is the Remote Authentication Dial In User Service RADIUS protocol. The RADIUS protocol is described in Carl Rigney et al. Remote Authentication Dial In User Server RADIUS Network Working Group of the Internet Engineering Task Force IETF Request for Comments 2865 June 2000 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety referred to hereinafter as RFC 2865 . Another AAA framework known as the Diameter protocol extends and replaces RADIUS. Diameter is described in V. Fajardo et al. Diameter Base Protocol Network Working Group of the Internet Engineering Task Force IETF Request for Comments 6733 October 2012 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety referred to hereinafter as RFC 6733 . The RADIUS Diameter and other AAA protocols are referred to hereinafter using the term AAA protocol which provides a AAA framework for applications.

To request access to a service a subscriber connects to a network access server NAS that acts as a gateway to the service as provided by a service provider network or the Internet e.g. . If the NAS is a AAA client configured to communicate with a AAA server for the service provider network using the AAA protocol the NAS confirms that the subscriber is authentic and is authorized to access the service by requesting the AAA server to validate the access request from the subscriber. Upon validating an access request the AAA server responds to the NAS with a AAA protocol message directing the NAS to accept the access request and establish a session enabling connectivity between the subscriber and the service provider network for the requested service.

In general techniques are described for exposing a RESTful interface to a AAA framework for a network to adapt existing subscriber management and service management infrastructure to the RESTful software architecture style. A RESTful interface or more simply a REST interface refers to an interface that conforms to the REpresentational State Transfer REST software architectural style which involves a stateless client server architecture in which the client interacts with the server by way of services identified using resource Uniform Resource Identifiers URIs to perform actions with respect to the identified resources.

In some examples of the techniques a controller exposes a RESTful interface that maps resource URIs to subscriber management related constructs managed by a AAA or other policy server. The constructs may include subscriber profiles including authorized services services provided by the network and service level agreement SLA profiles for example. Put another way the RESTful interface organizes the resource URIs according to a subscriber management resource model which the controller may translate to the legacy AAA data model and use to manage subscribers by way of the AAA protocol. Applications network operators controllers or other entities may invoke a method of the RESTful interface of the controller using a communication protocol for transferring application data that specifies the method a resource URI and optionally parameters for the method. The controller translates the resource URI and the optional parameters to subscriber management related constructs and applies to the corresponding resource s one of a create read update and delete CRUD action corresponding to the method specified by the application data.

The techniques may provide one or more advantages. For example providing a RESTful interface to the AAA framework may enable the network operator to flexibly and responsively perform subscriber management for the network. The network operator may as a result embed subscriber management into a software defined networking SDN workflow without having to modify at least some of the legacy network infrastructure. For example network access servers NASes acting as gateways to the provided services for the subscriber may continue to operate according to the AAA framework using e.g. RADIUS Diameter. In other words the techniques may permit RESTful access to RADIUS Diameter controller NASes or other network infrastructure. Because the network operator does not need to upgrade or replace the NASes in order to realize the benefits of an SDN workflow with respect to subscriber management the techniques may potentially reduce operational expenditures OpEx to the operator going forward while holding down capital expenditures CapEx .

In one example a method comprises receiving by a controller for a network and via a Representational State Transfer REST interface application data that specifies an interface method and a resource identifier for a resource the resource identifier conforming to a subscriber management resource model. The method also comprises determining by the controller and based on the resource identifier a record for a subscriber management construct corresponding to the resource. The method also comprises applying by the controller to the record an action corresponding to the interface method to modify access to the network by a subscriber.

In another example a controller provides authentication authorization and accounting AAA services for a network the controller comprising a control unit having one or more processors and a Representational State Transfer REST interface executed by the control unit to receive application data that specifies an interface method and a resource identifier for a resource the resource identifier conforming to a subscriber management resource model. The REST interface determines based on the resource identifier a record for a subscriber management construct corresponding to the resource. The REST interface applies to the record an action corresponding to the interface method to modify access to the network by a subscriber.

In another example a non transitory computer readable medium contains instructions. The instructions cause one or more programmable processors to receive by a controller for a network and via a Representational State Transfer REST interface application data that specifies a interface method and a resource identifier for a resource the resource identifier conforming to a subscriber management resource model determine by the controller and based on the resource identifier a record for a subscriber management construct corresponding to the resource and apply by the controller to the record an action corresponding to the interface method to modify access to the network by a subscriber.

The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Service provider network supports one or more packet based services that are available for request and use by subscriber devices A N collectively subscriber devices . As examples SP network may provide Internet access bulk data delivery voice over Internet protocol VoIP Internet Protocol television IPTV Short Messaging Service SMS Wireless Application Protocol WAP service Telnet or customer specific application services. Service provider network may include for instance a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet a virtual LAN VLAN an enterprise LAN a layer virtual private network VPN an Internet Protocol IP intranet operated by a network service provider that also operates access network an enterprise IP network or some combination thereof. In various embodiments SP network may be connected to a public WAN the Internet or to other networks. SP network executes one or more packet data protocols PDPs such as IP IPv4 and or IPv6 X.25 or Point to Point Protocol PPP to enable packet based transport of SP network services.

An administrator operator of SP network a network service provider or enterprise deploys network access server NAS to function as an access gateway to the service provided by service provider network . Accordingly NAS represents a device or component e.g. board or service card within a device that governs access to SP network to subscriber devices . For example NAS may represent and or incorporate a network access server that provides dial up or virtual private network VPN services to an enterprise LAN. NAS may also or alternatively represent a remote access server e.g. Broadband Remote Access Server BRAS Broadband Services Router BSR or Broadband Network Gateway BNG that aggregates outputs from one or more Digital Subscriber Line Access Multiplexers DSLAMs or Cable Modem Termination Systems into a higher speed uplink to SP network a wireless access point WAP providing wireless physical layer access to SP network a Remote Access Server a Virtual Private Network server a switch with port based authentication or another device that governs access to SP network .

Subscriber devices connect to NAS via access network to receive connectivity to SP network services for applications hosted by subscriber devices . Each of subscriber devices may represent for example a workstation desktop computer laptop computer cellular or other mobile device Personal Digital Assistant PDA gaming console television set top box smart phone tablet computer or any other device capable of accessing a computer network via a wireless and or wired connection. Each of subscriber devices may be associated with a subscriber e.g. a human . Subscriber devices may in some cases include and be referred to as customer premise equipment CPE .

A network service provider or other entity that administers SP network operates or in some cases leases elements of access network to provide packet transport between subscriber devices and NAS . Access network may include a broadband access network e.g. cable or Digital Subscriber Line DSL cellular access network wireless LAN public switched telephone network PSTN or other type of access network. In examples of network system that include a cellular access network as access network NAS may represent a mobile gateway for example a Gateway General Packet Radio Service GPRS Serving Node GGSN an Access Gateway aGW or a Packet Data Network PDN Gateway PGW .

The elements of access network may support any one or more of a variety of protocols such as Internet Protocol IP Frame Relay Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM Ethernet Point to Point Protocol PPP Point to Point Protocol over Ethernet PPPoE GPRS tunneling protocol GTP and virtual local area network VLAN related protocols among others. Using any one or more of these protocols any of subscriber devices may present authentication credentials to NAS to request access to a SP network service. For example subscriber device A may send credentials such as a username and password to NAS to request access to a service provided by SP network . Subscriber devices may send credentials using for instance a PPPoE Active Discovery Initiation PADI packet to NAS .

NAS establishes subscriber sessions for authorized subscribers to enable connectivity to SP network for one or more services defined for NAS . Services represent service definitions that each defines a single service which is usable for instantiation as a service for multiple subscriber devices . Services define the capabilities and characteristics of services provided by service provider network via NAS said capabilities and characteristics including for instance interface profiles policy lists classifier lists and service level agreement SLA profiles that may include Quality of Service QoS parameters QoS profiles and rate limit profiles such as bandwidth attributes for the service. In some cases services may be parameterized such that NAS may instantiate a service for multiple subscribers by providing different parameter values configured for the subscribers. Examples of services may include a VoIP service definition VoD service definition walled garden service definition mobile service definition and broadband Internet service definition.

NAS may create a service instance for a subscriber by specifying one of SLA profiles and or parameter values if needed for a service definition to create a service session i.e. a session created when NAS activates a service instance for one of subscriber devices . Each of subscriber devices may be associated with multiple active service sessions in parallel. NAS may store a session context for each session that includes session context information such as the IP address allocated to the subscriber the Access Point Name APN for the service a Network Service Access Point Identifier NSAPI for the service session forwarding information charging information for accounting records one or more quality of service QoS profiles for the subscriber and or a subscriber IMSI or other mobile subscriber identity. A network operator may use a command line CLI or other interface to configure services available for instantiation and use by subscriber devices as well as to configure SLA profiles . In some examples controller configures one or more of services and SLA profiles to facilitate a software defined networking SDN workflow. Additional information regarding software defined networking is found in PCT International Patent Application PCT US13 44378 filed Jun. 5 2013 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. Additional information regarding configuring services is found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 318 541 GRAPH DATABASE FOR SERVICES PLANNING AND CONFIGURATION IN NETWORK SERVICES DOMAIN Geoffrey Mattson Lei Qiu filed Jun. 27 2014 which is incorporated by reference as is fully set forth herein.

Controller provides a high level controller for configuring and managing routing and switching infrastructure of service provider network including e.g. NAS . Controller may represent a SDN controller in some examples. Controller may be logically and or physically centralized and may represent or be hosted by a dedicated appliance one or more servers or another network device.

Controller includes a AAA server for centrally managing subscriber sessions and NAS is configured by the network service provider or other administrative entity as an authentication authorization and accounting AAA client to outsource AAA functions to AAA server . In part by using AAA server controller performs subscriber management functionality including authentication authorization accounting dynamic policy management policy routing dynamic service authorization for instance. Authentication is the process of verifying a subscriber identity. Authorization is the process of determining whether and the form in which an authenticated subscriber has access to SP network e.g. for which of services is the authenticated subscriber authorized and in what manner. Accounting is the process of generating records of session statistics for subscribers for billing and monitoring.

Controller includes a subscriber database that stores a list of subscriber accounts and subscriber account properties that can be checked by AAA server to verify authentication credentials and queried by AAA server to obtain subscriber account properties containing authorization and connection parameter information for subscribers. Subscriber database may in some examples include policy routing filters hereinafter data filters that may be associated with subscribers to determine packet routing and forwarding for the subscribers according to policies determined by the network operator client and or applications . Subscriber database may include an RSA SecurID system a Structured Query Language or Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP database server or a Home Location Register for instance. In some examples subscriber database may be external to the controller but accessible by way of a communication protocol. For example subscriber database may be presented by an external database server. In some examples AAA server may outsource some AAA functionality to one or more backend servers such as an authentication server external database and remote AAA server not illustrated .

AAA server stores to subscriber database for example session information in session records for service sessions established by NAS . Session records include information received from NAS in AAA request messages such as RADIUS Accounting Request and or Access Request messages. For example a session record for a session established by NAS may include a subscriber user name a NAS ID entifier value for that uniquely identifies NAS to RADIUS server a NAS network address e.g. an IPv4 or IPv6 address an accounting session identifier that uniquely identifies the session on NAS e.g. Acct Session Id described in RFC 2866 and accounting information e.g. input or output octets packets for the session timing information .

When NAS receives authentication credentials from a subscriber in a request to access SP network services NAS sends a request that conforms to the AAA protocol for the AAA server . For example NAS may send a RADIUS protocol Access Request to AAA server containing attributes such as the subscriber user name and password an identifier for the NAS e.g. the NAS ID the NAS network address and the Port ID the subscriber is accessing. If subscriber database stores a configuration record for the subscriber and the authorization credentials are correct AAA server returns a RADIUS protocol Access Accept message to the NAS . If a match is not found or a problem is found with the authentication credentials the server returns a RADIUS Access Reject message. The NAS then establishes or terminates the user s connection accordingly. The NAS may then forward accounting information to AAA server to document the transaction which the AAA server may store or forward this information to support billing for the services provided. Although this example accords with the RADIUS protocol Diameter and other AAA protocols operate similarly.

In accordance with techniques described herein controller exposes a REST interface to enable network operator client and or applications to manage the access to service provider network by subscriber devices in a RESTful manner. REST interface is a RESTful interface in that REST interface conforms to the REpresentational State Transfer REST software architectural style which involves a stateless client server architecture in which operator client and or applications exchange application data with controller to access resources and to perform actions with respect to the identified resources.

REST interface may provide different levels of access each requiring authentication. REST interface may employ traditional username and password authentication OAuth 2.0 based user authentication or another type of authentication. Operator may have system level access for example allowing the operator to configure authorized services for subscribers.

In some examples any of operator client and applications may access the REST interface by way of a service provider system not shown implemented and operated by the service provider that manages service provider network . In such examples customers of the service provider may interact with the service provider system using a client device not shown . For instance service provider system may include a web server or other application server that provides a portal that includes a graphical user interface GUI and or application programming interface API which allow customers to set up subscriber profiles request services for subscribers and so forth. In some examples the service provider system may be owned operated and or maintained by the customer rather than the service provider that manages service provider network . In such examples the service provider system exchanges application data with REST interface to invoke REST methods and receive responses which the service provider system may present or forward to the entity using the system.

REST interface may map Uniform Resource Identifiers URIs to subscriber management related constructs managed by controller including AAA server . The subscriber management constructs may include subscriber profiles including authorized services for subscriber devices stored by subscriber database as well as services and SLA profiles defined and stored by services database for example. REST interface organizes the resource URIs according to a subscriber management resource model which controller translates to the low level data model recognized by AAA server and NAS and used to manage subscriber devices and configure services in NAS . Each of subscriber database and services database may represent an internal or external database a flat or structured file or other suitable data structure for storing representations of subscribers information in the case of subscriber database and of services and SLA profiles in the case of services database .

Network operator and applications for instance may invoke a method of the REST interface of controller using a communication protocol for transferring application data that specifies the method a resource URI according to the subscriber management resource model and optionally parameters for the method. Controller translates the resource URI and the optional parameters to subscriber management related constructs and applies to the corresponding resource s one of a create read update and delete CRUD action corresponding to the method specified by the application data.

In the example of one of operator or applications invokes a method of the REST interface to apply an action to a subscriber device A associated with a subscriber identified by a URI. REST interface if needed according to the action accesses the subscriber profile for the subscriber in subscriber database . For example invocation of a REST interface method corresponding to a read action may cause the REST interface to return subscriber information for a subscriber identified by a resource URI. As another example invocation of a REST interface method corresponding to a create action may cause the REST interface to create a new subscriber in the subscriber database using subscriber information included in the application data specifying the method. Moreover if the subscriber is already online in that the subscriber device A has an active service session with NAS REST interface may direct AAA server according to the action to modify the active service session in NAS . AAA server may in response send a service session modification message to NAS to modify the active service session. The service session modification message may conform to a AAA protocol and may represent a RADIUS Change Of Authorization CoA or Diameter Re Auth Request RAR message for instance.

Further in the example of one of operator or applications may invoke a method of the REST interface to apply an action to a service or SLA profile for services as stored to services database and configured in NAS and as identified by a resource URI according to the subscriber management resource model described herein. Operator or applications may invoke the method by transferring application data to controller via a communication protocol. Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP may be used as the application layer protocol underlying REST interface for transferring application layer data application data but the techniques are not limited to HTTP. Upon invocation of the method REST interface if needed according to the action modifies the service or SLA profile in the services database . Controller in response and according to the action may send a service modification message to NAS to modify a configuration of any of services or SLA profiles in NAS for instance. Service modification message may conform to a configuration protocol for NAS such as a CLI or SNMP.

The techniques may provide one or more advantages. For example the REST interface to AAA server may enable operator client and or applications to use a software defined networking interface to flexibly and responsively perform subscriber management for the service provider network . As a result any of these entities may embed subscriber management into a software defined networking SDN workflow managed by controller without the operator having to modify at least some of the legacy network infrastructure such as NAS which may operate according to a legacy AAA framework e.g. RADIUS Diameter .

Control unit of controller provides an operating environment for executing modules which in the illustrated example include REST interface transformation engine and AAA server . Control unit may include one or more processors including one or more microprocessors digital signal processors DSPs application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or any other equivalent integrated or discrete logic circuitry as well as any combinations of such components to execute modules that implement functionality described herein. In this example control unit also includes computer readable storage media to store services database and subscriber database data structures which may include flat files databases tables trees and or lists for example. One or more network interface cards of controller exchange packets with devices of network system for processing by control unit .

REST interface in this example executes HTTP to receive application data that invokes methods of REST interface and to send application data that is responsive to method invocations. In this respect REST interface may represent a web services interface for a web service framework for accessing and manipulating the subscriber management resource model described herein. Methods may alternatively be referred to as requests. HTTP being used as the application protocol in this example the methods are HTTP methods that describe to REST interface the CRUD actions to be performed with respect to a resource URI of the subscriber management resource model described herein. These methods are listed and described in Table 1.

REST interface may expose hierarchically arranged resource URIs to identify resources. However REST interface may in some cases use non URI based resource identifiers to identify resources. An example structure for resources according to a subscriber management resource model described herein is provided as follows in an informal representation of a JavaScript Object Notation JSON format a light weight data interchange format with nested document being supported. This example structure is illustrative and does not imply any specific choice for a type of data storage of subscriber database and services database . Moreover the types of resources described herein may not be exhaustive for any particular implementation of a subscriber management resource model as described herein.

REST interface may receive application data that invokes methods of the interface and includes JSON formatted or other data interchanged formatted document as parameters for the methods. For example JSON formatted data describing a subscriber may be included in application data from a client of REST interface the application data identifying a resource URI for a subscriber e.g. subscriber A and specifying a POST method to direct controller to create the new subscriber according to the descriptive data in the JSON formatted data. JSON is merely one example of a data interchange format. Other formats such as XML may be used to exchange application data with REST interface .

Any of the REST interface methods listed in Table 1 may apply to a resource identified by a resource URI according to the JSON format above and may include parameter data for the resource. Example resource URIs for subscribers according to the subscriber management resource model exposed by REST interface according to the JSON format above along with the action performed by any of the methods listed in Table 1 are listed and described in Table 2.

Example resource URIs for services according to the subscriber management resource model exposed by REST interface according to the JSON format above along with the action performed by any of the methods listed in Table 1 are listed and described in Table 3.

Example resource URIs for SLA profiles according to the subscriber management resource model exposed by REST interface according to the JSON format above along with the action performed by any of the methods listed in Table 1 are listed and described in Table 4.

Other resources that may be included in a subscriber management resource model such as data filters may be modified using HTTP methods in a manner similar to that applied to SLA profiles for instance.

In this example implementation transformation engine transforms resources provided in a high level subscriber management resource model according to a resource URI scheme to lower level objects in a technology data model usable by AAA server and services provisioning module to conform the state of NAS to the description received by REST interface . For any resource specified as part of a method invocation services database and subscriber database may store an update to the resource. For example a PUT method for subscribers subscriber A may cause an update to the subscriber record for subscriber A in subscriber database . In some examples transformation engine may translate the PUT method to a SQL UPDATE query for the subscriber record for subscriber A and execute the query against subscriber database . A similar transformation mapping for the remaining HTTP methods is as follows GET SELECT POST INSERT and DELETE DELETE. As another example invocation of a POST method for services service A may cause REST interface to create a service record for service A in services database the service record describing service A according to the document description received in application data that also included the invocation.

AAA server includes validation module authorization module and accounting module to perform AAA functionality for subscriber management. In this example AAA server communicates with one or more AAA clients using RADIUS and or Diameter . Network interface card exchanges network packets that carry RADIUS protocol messages with a NAS connected to network interface card by at least one network link. User Datagram Protocol UDP datagrams carry RADIUS protocol messages. Control unit implements a network stack to receive UDP messages sent to a port assigned to RADIUS and provides application data in the form of RADIUS protocol request packets to authorization module and accounting module for processing after threshold validation of the RADIUS protocol messages by validation module . Similarly control unit uses the network stack to encapsulate RADIUS reply packets in UDP datagrams for output by network interface card to NAS .

Authorization module and accounting module implement lower level subscriber management related constructs manageable by RADIUS or Diameter . For example subscriber database stores subscriber profiles for subscriber authorized to access network services. On receipt a message that conforms to a AAA protocol and includes a request for a service authorization module may query subscriber database to determine whether the subscriber is authorized and to provide an indication of the determination to the AAA client. This indication may include a service activation attribute which may be a vendor specific attribute VSA that identifies the one or more services

In some cases and as described in further detail with respect to authorization module dynamically modifies a service authorization for a subscriber in response to an invocation of a REST interface method that modifies the authorized services for a subscriber that is already logged in i.e. has an active service session.

Service provisioning module executes a protocol or interface to configure services and SLA profiles of NAS to conform services at NAS to the services database .

REST interface replies to invoked methods with an HTTP response in accordance with HTTP . For some methods such as GET the HTTP response includes application data having a document description for the resource s identified in the GET request. HTTP Responses include an HTTP status code such as 200 OK for a GET request or a 201 Created for a successfully executed POST request. An HTTP response to a failed request may include one of the Error 4xx 5xx codes. More specifically because RADIUS and Diameter are transaction based REST interface uses HTTP error codes to inform the operator client or application regarding the failure condition. The following are example HTTP error codes that may be used by REST interface to indicate certain of the failure conditions 

REST interface of controller receives application data in a HTTP session from an HTTP client that is one of an operator client or applications . The application data specifies an HTTP method and a resource URI according to a subscriber management resource model as described in this disclosure. REST interface determines the HTTP method specified by the application data e.g. GET POST PUT DELETE and translates the application data from the subscriber management resource model to a record that conforms to a legacy protocol model such as RADIUS Diameter or a service configuration record for a network access server. REST interface may access a record in a database that corresponds to the resource URI specified in the application data . For example REST interface may retrieve and return a record in response to a GET method create a new record in response to a POST method update an existing record in response to a PUT method and delete an existing record in response to a DELETE method.

REST interface sends application data to the HTTP client via the HTTP session the application data including an HTTP status code indicating a result of the invoked method . Subsequently AAA server receives a request from NAS conforming to the AAA protocol . The request may represent an Access Request for instance. AAA server looks up the record and responds to the request with record data . For example the record data may include authorized services for a subscriber identified in an Access Request message. AAA server may return an indication of the authorized services in an Access Accept message.

REST interface receives an HTTP request for a new service for a subscriber . If the subscriber is not authorized to have the new service NO branch of REST interface issues an HTTP response with HTTP code Forbidden to indicate to the HTTP client that the subscriber is not authorized . For example the service may not be included in the subscriber s service plan purchased from the service provider.

If the subscriber is authorized to have the new service YES branch of REST interface updates a subscriber database record for the subscriber to indicate the subscriber s session should be activated with the new service . If the subscriber is not online i.e. does not have an active session on NAS NO branch of REST interface issues an HTTP response with HTTP code OK to indicate to the HTTP client that the requested service has been successfully added to the subscriber s profile .

If the subscriber is already online YES branch of REST interface dynamically modifies the subscriber s active session on NAS by triggering a RADIUS Change of Authorization CoA request or a Diameter Re Auth Request RAR request by AAA server . The request specifies the new service for the subscriber for instance within a Service Activation attribute for the request. AAA server of controller sends the request to NAS which may represent a Broadband Network Gateway for instance . NAS responds with an indication of the whether NAS successfully executed the request. If the request was successfully executed YES branch of REST interface issues an HTTP response with HTTP code OK to indicate to the HTTP client that the requested service has been successfully added to the subscriber s active profile . Otherwise NO branch of REST interface issues an HTTP response with an HTTP 5xx error code to indicate there was an error on the NAS to prevent the subscriber s active profile from being dynamically modified . By exposing a REST interface to operate in this manner the controller may enable clients and applications to integrate subscriber management into a dynamic workflow such as an SDN workflow.

The techniques described herein may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. Various features described as modules units or components may be implemented together in an integrated logic device or separately as discrete but interoperable logic devices or other hardware devices. In some cases various features of electronic circuitry may be implemented as one or more integrated circuit devices such as an integrated circuit chip or chipset.

If implemented in hardware this disclosure may be directed to an apparatus such a processor or an integrated circuit device such as an integrated circuit chip or chipset. Alternatively or additionally if implemented in software or firmware the techniques may be realized at least in part by a computer readable data storage medium comprising instructions that when executed cause a processor to perform one or more of the methods described above. For example the computer readable data storage medium may store such instructions for execution by a processor.

A computer readable medium may form part of a computer program product which may include packaging materials. A computer readable medium may comprise a computer data storage medium such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM non volatile random access memory NVRAM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM Flash memory magnetic or optical data storage media and the like. In some examples an article of manufacture may comprise one or more computer readable storage media.

In some examples the computer readable storage media may comprise non transitory media. The term non transitory may indicate that the storage medium is not embodied in a carrier wave or a propagated signal. In certain examples a non transitory storage medium may store data that can over time change e.g. in RAM or cache .

The code or instructions may be software and or firmware executed by processing circuitry including one or more processors such as one or more digital signal processors DSPs general purpose microprocessors application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or other equivalent integrated or discrete logic circuitry. Accordingly the term processor as used herein may refer to any of the foregoing structure or any other structure suitable for implementation of the techniques described herein. In addition in some aspects functionality described in this disclosure may be provided within software modules or hardware modules.

Various embodiments have been described. These and other embodiments are within the scope of the following examples.

