---

title: Cross-layer and cross-application acknowledgment for data transmission
abstract: Systems and methods may integrate acknowledgments, such as application-level acknowledgments and medium access control layer acknowledgments. In an embodiment of a cross-layer acknowledgment method, a medium access control layer acknowledgment and application-layer acknowledgment may be integrated as a single medium access control layer acknowledgment. In an embodiment of a cross-application acknowledgment method, an application-layer acknowledgment for a first application and application-layer acknowledgment for a second application may be integrated into a single medium access control layer frame.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09496989&OS=09496989&RS=09496989
owner: Convida Wireless, LLC
number: 09496989
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140620
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 837 746 filed on Jun. 21 2013 entitled METHODS OF CROSS LAYER AND CROSS APPLICATION ACKNOWLEDGMENT FOR DATA TRANSMISSION IN PROXIMITY COMMUNICATIONS the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The Internet of Things IoT introduces objects or things to Human to Human H2H based Internet services. It marks a stage of the Internet where physical or virtual objects are interconnected to enable the Internet of Services IoS . Many of these services are proximity based such as smart shopping smart home smart office smart health smart transportation smart parking smart grid and smart city among other things.

Proximity services may be based on peer to peer P2P communications in proximity. P2P devices include tablets smart phones music players game consoles personal digital assistances laptops PCs medical devices connected cars smart meters sensors gateways monitors alarms set top boxes printers Google glasses drones and service robots among other things. A P2P communication system may be a central system with a controller or core network serving as an infrastructure or a distributed system without a controller or core network serving as the infrastructure. Proximity services may include human to human H2H proximity services machine to machine M2M proximity services machine to human M2H proximity services human to machine H2M proximity services and network of network proximity services.

Proximity based applications and services represent a trend to offload heavy local internet traffic from a core infrastructure as well as provide the connections to an infrastructure via multi hopping. Many standards have identified proximity services use cases as part of their standardization working groups such as 3GPP oneM2M IETF IEEE and OMA. Service layer as well as cross layer techniques is an area of standardization to enable these services.

Proximity services may use wireless networks that have varying acknowledgement i.e. ACK mechanisms for reliable data transmission as specified in IEEE 802.15 and IEEE 802.11 standard series.

 IEEE 802.15.4e MAC Enhancement for IEEE 802.15.4 2006 ACK information element IE is defined for the coordinator to acknowledge multiple data frames transmitted in guaranteed time slot GTS . Group ACK serves to allocate a new time slot for retransmission. An ACK frame can contain additional contents as IEs. Multi channel adaptation and switch are defined for a sender and receiver pair to switch their communication channel.

In IEEE 802.15.4k in PHY MAC Amendment for Low Energy Critical Infrastructure Networks increment ACK LACK is defined to assist reliable MAC fragments transmission. Each LACK indicates both successfully transmitted fragments and failed fragments. LACK can be described as a combination of ACK and NACK.

In IETF Constrained Application Protocol CoAP there is ACK and retransmission in the CoAP protocol. In essence a CoAP client first sends a request to a CoAP server. Then the CoAP server needs to send an ACK back to the CoAP client if the request needs to be confirmed. In addition CoAP server can also piggyback a response together with the ACK. Such ACK and response are CoAP level functions related to applications which are completely independent of MAC layer ACK. No matter whether there is MAC layer ACK or not CoAP protocol will work in such ways separated CoAP ACK and CoAP response or piggybacked CoAP ACK and CoAP response as specified in IETF CoAP.

The conventional acknowledgement e.g. ACK mechanisms for reliable data transmission such as the above may be further optimized.

MAC layer acknowledgements in conventional protocols is application oblivious or application independent. Disclosed herein are systems and methods that integrate acknowledgments such as application level acknowledgments and medium access control layer acknowledgments. In an embodiment an integrated acknowledgment is leveraged to serve both medium access control layer acknowledgment and application layer acknowledgment. In another embodiment the integrated acknowledgment may be leveraged to acknowledge multiple applications in the same ACK frame.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not constrained to limitations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

MAC layer acknowledgements in conventional protocols is application oblivious or application independent. Disclosed herein are methods and systems that integrate and optimize application level ACK e.g. CoAP level ACK and MAC layer ACK e.g. IEEE 802.15.4 ACK . The optimizations may be achieved by defining an integrated ACK message that can reduce the number of messages that are required between a sender and a receiver. As discussed herein an integrated MAC ACK may include a cross layer ACK a cross application ACK or a cross layer cross application ACK.

ACK based retransmission mechanisms exist in most MAC protocols such as IEEE 802.15 and IEEE 802.11 series to provide one hop reliable transmission in MAC layer. Higher layer protocols e.g. TCP CoAP also provide end to end multi hop or one hop reliable transmission based on an end to end ACK mechanism. However the MAC layer retransmission and application layer retransmission are independent of each other. In other words MAC layer retransmission is based on MAC layer ACK and higher layer retransmission is solely based on application layer ACK as discussed in further detail below.

For proximity communications where most applications occur within one hop although multi hop is sometimes required it turns out that the independently treated MAC layer retransmission and higher layer retransmission may be redundant. There are MAC layer ACK messages in most MAC protocols e.g. IEEE 802.15.4 that have no use to the application layer. The number of messages may be reduced by allowing application data to be piggybacked in the MAC layer ACK. Application data may be an application ACK.

Methods and system discussed herein disclose how to coordinate and optimize MAC layer transmission or retransmission and higher layer transmission or retransmission mechanisms for multiple applications. Acknowledgement mechanisms for reliable data transmission for proximity communications such as cross layer ACK cross application ACK and cross layer cross application ACK are explained in more detail below. Also as discussed in more detail herein application data means data from layers higher than the MAC layer such as layer 4 e.g. TCP SCTP etc. layer 5 e.g. CoAP HTTP etc. or other layers higher than the MAC layer. Application ACK means the ACK for application data. The disclosed methods and systems may have impact to MAC layer protocols such as IEEE 802.15.8 IEEE 802.15.4 or IEEE 802.11x.

Cross layer ACK involves MAC layer ACK e.g. IEEE 802.15.4 and application layer ACK e.g. CoAP that are integrated as a single MAC layer ACK hereinafter an Integrated MAC ACK . An integrated ACK is leveraged to serve both MAC layer acknowledgment and application layer acknowledgment. and illustrates scenarios where communication between user equipment UE is within one hop. A UE as discussed herein may be considered a mobile station a fixed or mobile subscriber unit a pager a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a smartphone a laptop a netbook a personal computer a wireless sensor or actuator consumer electronics medical devices automobiles and the like.

The conventional message flow illustrates that two MAC ACK frames at step and step are required for the two MAC data frames that contain MAC application data at step and step . In total as shown in there are four messages between UE and UE . The application data of step may be an application request and application ACK of step may be an application response.

With cross layer ACK the number of total messages may be reduced from four to two as illustrated in . The use of cross layer ACK may assist in the reduction of total bits to be transmitted since each message may contain a MAC header MAC footer PHY header and PHY footer among other things. In addition the reduction of messages may reduce the potential of channel collisions over the air. In total the reductions may improve performance in terms of latency throughput and energy consumption among other things.

In it may take UE time to calculate application ACK hereinafter also App ACK . Thus in an implementation of cross layer ACK the integrated MAC ACK may not be issued until the paired App ACK becomes available. illustrates a message flow for a streamlined cross layer ACK which an App ACK is not necessarily paired with the MAC ACK that is associated with the MAC frame that carried the application data. At step UE sends to UE a MAC data frame that includes first application data. At step UE sends to UE a MAC ACK with regard to the received MAC data frame of step . At step UE sends to UE a MAC data frame that includes second application data.

With continued reference to at step App ACK for application data of step becomes available on UE . At step UE sends to UE an integrated MAC ACK that includes a MAC ACK for the MAC data frame of step as well as an App ACK for first application data of step . At step UE sends to UE a MAC data frame that includes third application data. At step App ACK for application data of step becomes available on UE . At step UE sends to UE an integrated MAC ACK that includes a MAC ACK for the MAC data frame of step as well as an App ACK for second application data of step .

With reference to additional steps illustrate that UE may hold multiple App ACKs and piggyback them together in one immediate MAC ACK if the multiple App ACKs become available within a threshold time interval. At step UE sends to UE a MAC data frame that includes fourth application data. At step an App ACK for third application data of step becomes available on UE . At step an App ACK for fourth application data of step becomes available on UE . At step UE sends to UE an integrated MAC ACK that includes a MAC ACK for the MAC data frame of step as well as an App ACK for third application data of step and App ACK for fourth application data of step .

With reference to cross layer ACK in some cases there may be a delay when holding App ACK to be transmitted in the next integrated MAC ACK. This is generally not a significant issue for continuous or interactive applications such as voice video streaming and content sharing among other things. In addition to delay App ACK also may bring benefits from an application perspective. For example to delay TCP ACK can help reduce window size at the sender. Research on wireless TCP has demonstrated that a TCP delay in this manner may mitigate or remove potential congestion i.e. a TCP enhancement for wireless proximity communication .

At step after cross layer ACK is enabled cross layer ACK MAC procedures are performed. The procedures may include disabling MAC fragmentation and marking a flag in MAC frame for requesting integrated ACK from the receiver. Alternatively fragmentation may be enabled and only marking the last fragment for integrated ACK. UE may maintain a mapping relationship between MAC frame and application messages i.e. higher layer data . At step the message is sent via a PHY frame. In an embodiment there may be an indicator that alerts the MAC layer whether a message from an application may be grouped with applications from different layers e.g. layer versus layer .

With reference to step and step of if the higher layer message does not need an ACK or if the message is fragmented at step cross layer ACK may be disabled or not activated for the message. At step conventional MAC procedures may be executed.

With reference to in an embodiment UE may wait a set period before sending the integrated MAC ACK associated with step which may be predetermined manually e.g. set by a user or automatically e.g. automatically modified based on the type of application such as video streaming application chat application health application or the like .

With reference to the MAC ACK frame for each hop may contain more information to support advanced features for improving reliable transmission. For example a flag bit may be used to indicate if the corresponding data frame is to be forwarded or not. This bit can be set by UE if UE uses source based routing protocols or UE may be set by relay . There also may be more bits to indicate the number of hops. Relay which is one hope away from UE may determine whether to enable cross layer ACK. UE the receiver may independently determine whether to use cross layer ACK.

Discussed in more detail below is cross application ACK. For cross application ACK ACKs from different applications are integrated together and transmitted in the same MAC ACK frame. illustrates another type of integrated ACK message flow a cross application ACK message flow between a UE sender and UE receiver . It may be assumed that UE and UE simultaneously run multiple applications e.g. Application 1 and Application 2 and are within one hop.

With reference to at step UE sets a cross application ACK flag for Application 1 data. A cross application ACK flag may be a bit in the header of a MAC data frame. The flag indicates whether the contained application data can be jointly acknowledged with other application data. At step UE sends to UE a MAC data frame that includes Application 1 data with the cross app ACK flag. At step UE determines whether there is a cross application ACK flag bit set in the received MAC header of step . If the flag bit is set then UE marks application data as a candidate for cross application ACK. At step UE sends to UE a MAC ACK for the MAC data frame of step .

At step UE sets a cross application ACK flag for Application 2 data. At step UE sends to UE a MAC data frame that includes Application 2 data with the set cross application ACK flag. At step UE determines that there is a cross application ACK flag bit set in the received MAC header of step and UE marks Application data as a candidate for cross application ACK. At step UE sends to UE a MAC ACK for the MAC data frame of step .

At step UE sets a flag bit in the header of the MAC data frame of step to indicate that a cross application ACK is contained in the MAC data frame of step . At step UE sends to UE a MAC data frame.

At step UE sends to UE a MAC ACK for the MAC data frame of step . The MAC data frame of step includes a cross app ACK which is used to acknowledge receiving of Application 1 data of step and Application 2 data of step . Application 1 ACK and Application 2 ACK may be within the payload of the MAC data frame of step . At step UE determines that a flag e.g. bit is set in the MAC header that indicates cross application ACK is being used in the MAC data frame of step . UE decodes the MAC data frame and forwards the Application 1 ACK and Application 2 ACK to the corresponding applications in the higher layer.

MAC data frame of step may include parameters that support cross application layer ACK such as cross application ACK flag number of application ACKs parameter in current frame and allowed threshold maximum and list of application IDs among other things. For example a number of applications parameter may indicate the number of application ACKs contained in the MAC data frame of step . An application ID may indicate the corresponding applications that the piggybacked ACK i.e. the cross layer ACK of step belongs to.

Discussed in more detail below is cross layer cross application ACK. For cross layer cross application ACK different layers and different applications are integrated as a single MAC layer ACK. In other words the single integrated MAC ACK is leveraged to acknowledge MAC frames and data from different applications. illustrates a cross layer cross application message flow . It may be assume that UE sender and UE receiver simultaneously run multiple applications e.g. Application 1 and Application 2 . It also may assumed that UE and UE are in one hop and Application 1 and Application 2 implement application ACK for guaranteeing reliable transmission.

With reference to at step UE sends to UE a MAC data frame with Application 1 data. At step UE sends to UE a MAC data frame with Application 2 data. The MAC data frames of step and step may include cross app ACK flag number of applications parameter and list of application IDs among other things as discussed herein. For example UE may set a flag bit in the MAC header of the MAC data frames of step and to alert UE that cross layer cross application may be enabled for Application 1 and Application 2.

At step UE sends to UE an integrated cross layer cross application MAC ACK. There are multiple permutations of what may be included in the MAC ACK of step . In a first option the integrated cross layer cross application MAC ACK of step may include a conventional MAC ACK in response to MAC data frame of step and an application ACK for Application 1 data of step . For the first option UE does not need to wait for calculating an application ACK for Application 2 data. UE issues a MAC ACK immediately after receiving MAC data frame of step and piggybacks application ACK for Application 1 data of step because it is available to be transmitted at the same time of the MAC ACK.

With continued reference to in a second option at step the integrated cross layer cross application MAC ACK includes acknowledgements of MAC data frames and Applications of step and . It is assumed that all ACKs in have arrived within a threshold period before transmission at step .

Discussed below are exemplary flows for implementations using constrained application protocol CoAP in combination with the methods and system disclosed herein. CoAP is an application layer protocol that may be used in resource constrained Internet devices such as wireless sensor network nodes. Details on how CoAP ACK i.e. application ACK and IEEE 802.15.4 ACK i.e. MAC ACK are discussed below.

As discussed above there may be additional fields or parameters added in order to implement cross layer cross application and cross layer cross application acknowledgment. Table 1 presents examples of some of the fields that may be used in a MAC frame. For example there may be a cross layer ACK bit in MAC data frame header to indicate that the current MAC data frame expects or requests an integrated MAC ACK. There may be a cross layer ACK bit in MAC ACK frame header to indicate that the current MAC ACK is an integrated MAC ACK frame.

As shown the frame generally comprises a MAC header and MAC payload . In one embodiment all fields in the frame may be required except the auxiliary fields and auxiliary security header . In an embodiment the sequence number field and auxiliary security header may have the same meaning as defined in the IEEE 802.15.4 standard.

In this embodiment the frame control field carries control information such as the frame type required type of acknowledgement message and addressing mode. illustrates one embodiment of a format of the frame control field. In an embodiment the frame type frame pending frame version security enabled and IE present fields may have the same meaning as defined in the IEEE 802.15.4 standard. In one embodiment all the fields in this frame control field may be mandatory.

Frame type and subtype fields may be mandatory and together may indicate the type of a frame i.e. the function of a frame. In one embodiment there are four basic frame types beacon management data and acknowledgement. Each type of frame may have several subtypes. In addition the meaning of subtype fields may vary for different frame types. In one embodiment the acknowledgement frame type may be used to designate frames for use in the cross layer and cross application acknowledgement procedures described herein. Table 2 illustrates one embodiment of frame type and frame subtype values for acknowledgment frames. As shown subtypes 4 5 and 6 may in one embodiment be used to designate frames for use in cross layer cross application and both cross layer and cross application acknowledgements.

Referring still to in an embodiment a required ACK type field in the frame control field may specify what type of acknowledge frame is expected. For example the required ACK type field may be set as shown in Table 3 below.

Referring back to addressing fields may consist of one or more of a source address a destination address a transmitting hop address and a receiving hop address. Source address and destination address fields may carry the source and destination address of a frame. Transmitting hop address and receiving hop address fields may be reserved for multi hop scenarios carrying the address information of the intermediate peers. A transmitting hop address is an address of the peer sending this frame. The receiving hop address is the address of the peer to receive this frame. The presence of a transmitting hop address and or a receiving hop address field may be indicated by the addressing fields indication.

As shown in the MAC frame format may further include an addressing fields indication field that may contain an indication of the presence of a transmitting hop address and a receiving hop address in the addressing fields . While a source and destination address may always be present in addressing fields the presence of a transmitting hop address and a receiving hop address may be optional for a multi hop scenario. For example for one hop transmission neither is present for the first hop in a multi hop transmission i.e. the original source is sending the frame only a receiving hop address is present and the transmitting hop address is the same as the source address for the last hop in a multi hop transmission only a transmitting hop address is present and the receiving hop address is the same as the destination address and for other hops in a multi hop transmission both a transmitting hop address and a receiving hop address are included. In addition a frame may be a relayed frame when the addressing fields indication is set up as in the last two examples last hop and other hops .

As further shown in a P2PNW APP ID field field may contain a P2P network ID or application ID. All peers joining a P2P network NW may have a locally unique P2PNW APP ID. If a P2PNW ID is not determined when a frame is sent this field may carry an application ID. Because a P2PNW may be formed by an application or service a P2PNW ID may be a network identifier that may be used to define and differentiate an application specific P2PNW. Due to the distributed nature of proximity services a P2PNW ID may be locally unique.

A P2PNW ID may include but is not limited to a CAID or application ID that indicates the desired service or application e.g. Facebook for social networking Netflix for video streaming etc. location information indicating the location of the P2PNW an ID of the peer that generated the P2PNW ID and a network sequence number that may be used to differentiate existing P2PNWs with the same context information. A P2PNW ID may be generated using different structures such as a concatenated structure where each piece of information is assigned with some information bits and all information pieces are concatenated or a parallel structure where all pieces of information are added together through some mathematical calculation such as XOR and hash.

Based on different control schemes a P2PNW ID may be generated and assigned by different parties in the network. In a centralized control scheme embodiment a P2PNW ID may be generated by a Super virtual leader VL that then notifies the VL s or a VL may generate the P2PNW ID and broadcast it in a beacon to notify the SuperVL and other VLs. In a hybrid control scheme embodiment a VL may generate a P2PNW ID and broadcasts it in a beacon to notify other VLs. In a distributed control scheme embodiment a peer that wants to form a P2PNW i.e. a peer that defines a new application frame may generates a P2PNW ID and broadcast a beacon to notify every peer within the proximity of the P2PNW ID. A virtual leader VL is a peer that may be dynamically selected to represent manage and coordinate the P2P communications among a group of peers sharing the same proximity service i.e. within a P2PNW. A super virtual leader is a virtual leader defined to coordinate all virtual leaders of P2PNWs in proximity for different proximity services. A virtual leader and super virtual leader may be used for the purposes of synchronization power control interference management channel allocation access control or the like.

Still referring to an Auxiliary Fields field may contain fields that are optional but important for some functionalities. For example a context category field may be included that indicates an application or service category such as emergency service social networking smart office etc. As another example a hopper indication field may be included that indicates whether a frame sender is willing to relay other frames for a multi hop discovery process.

While 3GPP and 802.15 is described by way of background and may be used to illustrate various embodiments described herein it is understood that implementations of the embodiments may vary while remaining within the scope of the present disclosure. One skilled in the art will also recognize that the disclosed embodiments are not limited to implementations using 802.15 or 3GPP as discussed above but rather some or all may be implemented and integrated with other architectures and systems such as ETSI M2M oneM2M MQTT and other systems and architectures.

As shown in the M2M IoT WoT communication system includes a communication network . The communication network may be a fixed network e.g. Ethernet Fiber ISDN PLC or the like or a wireless network e.g. WLAN cellular or the like or a network of heterogeneous networks. For example the communication network may comprise of multiple access networks that provides content such as voice data video messaging broadcast or the like to multiple users. For example the communication network may employ one or more channel access methods such as code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA orthogonal FDMA OFDMA single carrier FDMA SC FDMA and the like. Further the communication network may comprise other networks such as a core network the Internet a sensor network an industrial control network a personal area network a fused personal network a satellite network a home network or an enterprise network for example.

As shown in the M2M IoT WoT communication system may include the Infrastructure Domain and the Field Domain. The Infrastructure Domain refers to the network side of the end to end M2M deployment and the Field Domain refers to the area networks usually behind an M2M gateway. The Field Domain includes M2M gateways and terminal devices . It will be appreciated that any number of M2M gateway devices and M2M terminal devices may be included in the M2M IoT WoT communication system as desired. Each of the M2M gateway devices and M2M terminal devices are configured to transmit and receive signals via the communication network or direct radio link. In some embodiments M2M gateway devices and M2M terminal devices may communicate using cross layer ACK cross application ACK or cross layer cross application ACK as discussed herein. The M2M gateway device allows wireless M2M devices e.g. cellular and non cellular as well as fixed network M2M devices e.g. PLC to communicate either through operator networks such as the communication network or direct radio link. For example the M2M devices may collect data and send the data via the communication network or direct radio link to an M2M application or M2M devices . The M2M devices may also receive data from the M2M application or an M2M device . Further data and signals may be sent to and received from the M2M application via an M2M service layer as described below. M2M devices and gateways may communicate via various networks including cellular WLAN WPAN e.g. Zigbee 6LoWPAN Bluetooth direct radio link and wireline for example.

Referring to the illustrated M2M service layer in the field domain provides services for the M2M application M2M gateway devices and M2M terminal devices and the communication network . It will be understood that the M2M service layer may communicate with any number of M2M applications M2M gateway devices M2M terminal devices and communication networks as desired. The M2M service layer may be implemented by one or more servers computers or the like. The M2M service layer provides service capabilities that apply to M2M terminal devices M2M gateway devices and M2M applications . The functions of the M2M service layer may be implemented in a variety of ways for example as a web server in the cellular core network in the cloud etc.

Similar to the illustrated M2M service layer there is the M2M service layer in the Infrastructure Domain. M2M service layer provides services for the M2M application and the underlying communication network in the infrastructure domain. M2M service layer also provides services for the M2M gateway devices and M2M terminal devices in the field domain. It will be understood that the M2M service layer may communicate with any number of M2M applications M2M gateway devices and M2M terminal devices. The M2M service layer may interact with a service layer by a different service provider. The M2M service layer may be implemented by one or more servers computers virtual machines e.g. cloud compute storage farms etc. or the like.

Referring also to the M2M service layer and provide a core set of service delivery capabilities that diverse applications and verticals can leverage. These service capabilities enable M2M applications and to interact with devices and perform functions such as data collection data analysis device management security billing service device discovery etc. Essentially these service capabilities free the applications of the burden of implementing these functionalities thus simplifying application development and reducing cost and time to market. The service layer and also enables M2M applications and to communicate through various networks and in connection with the services that the service layer and provide.

In some embodiments M2M applications and may include desired applications that flag the use of cross layer ACK cross application ACK or cross layer cross application ACK as discussed herein. The M2M applications and may include applications in various industries such as without limitation transportation health and wellness connected home energy management asset tracking and security and surveillance. As mentioned above the M2M service layer running across the devices gateways and other servers of the system supports functions such as for example data collection device management security billing location tracking geofencing device service discovery and legacy systems integration and provides these functions as services to the M2M applications and .

The cross layer ACK cross application ACK or cross layer cross application ACK of the present application may be implemented as part of a service layer that uses ACKs. For example a message from the service layer may have a flag that is indicative that cross layer ACK is allowed for that service. The service layer is a software middleware layer that supports value added service capabilities through a set of Application Programming Interfaces APIs and underlying networking interfaces. An M2M entity e.g. an M2M functional entity such as a device gateway or service platform that may be implemented by a combination of hardware and software may provide an application or service. Both ETSI M2M and oneM2M use a service layer that may contain components that work with cross layer ACK cross application ACK or cross layer cross application ACK of the present invention. ETSI M2M s service layer is referred to as the Service Capability Layer SCL . The SCL may be implemented within an M2M device where it is referred to as a device SCL DSCL a gateway where it is referred to as a gateway SCL GSCL and or a network node where it is referred to as a network SCL NSCL . The oneM2M service layer supports a set of Common Service Functions CSFs i.e. service capabilities . An instantiation of a set of one or more particular types of CSFs is referred to as a Common Services Entity CSE which can be hosted on different types of network nodes e.g. infrastructure node middle node application specific node . Further the present application may be implemented as part of an M2M network that uses a Service Oriented Architecture SOA and or a resource oriented architecture ROA to access services.

The processor may be a general purpose processor a special purpose processor a conventional processor a digital signal processor DSP a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in association with a DSP core a controller a microcontroller Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Array FPGAs circuits any other type of integrated circuit IC a state machine and the like. The processor may perform signal coding data processing power control input output processing and or any other functionality that enables the M2M device to operate in a wireless environment. The processor may be coupled to the transceiver which may be coupled to the transmit receive element . While depicts the processor and the transceiver as separate components it will be appreciated that the processor and the transceiver may be integrated together in an electronic package or chip. The processor may perform application layer programs e.g. browsers and or radio access layer RAN programs and or communications. The processor may perform security operations such as authentication security key agreement and or cryptographic operations such as at the access layer and or application layer for example.

The transmit receive element may be configured to transmit signals to or receive signals from an M2M service platform . For example in an embodiment the transmit receive element may be an antenna configured to transmit and or receive RF signals. The transmit receive element may support various networks and air interfaces such as WLAN WPAN cellular and the like. In an embodiment the transmit receive element may be an emitter detector configured to transmit and or receive IR UV or visible light signals for example. In yet another embodiment the transmit receive element may be configured to transmit and receive both RF and light signals. It will be appreciated that the transmit receive element may be configured to transmit and or receive any combination of wireless or wired signals.

In addition although the transmit receive element is depicted in as a single element the M2M device may include any number of transmit receive elements . More specifically the M2M device may employ MIMO technology. Thus in an embodiment the M2M device may include two or more transmit receive elements e.g. multiple antennas for transmitting and receiving wireless signals.

The transceiver may be configured to modulate the signals that are to be transmitted by the transmit receive element and to demodulate the signals that are received by the transmit receive element . As noted above the M2M device may have multi mode capabilities. Thus the transceiver may include multiple transceivers for enabling the M2M device to communicate via multiple RATs such as UTRA and IEEE 802.11 for example.

The processor may access information from and store data in any type of suitable memory such as the non removable memory and or the removable memory . The non removable memory may include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a hard disk or any other type of memory storage device. The removable memory may include a subscriber identity module SIM card a memory stick a secure digital SD memory card and the like. In other embodiments the processor may access information from and store data in memory that is not physically located on the M2M device such as on a server or a home computer. The processor may be configured to control lighting patterns images or colors on the display or indicators in response to status or configuration of the cross layer ACK cross application ACK or cross layer cross application ACK. In some embodiments described herein a user interface or the like may allow configuring or triggering cross layer ACK cross application ACK or cross layer cross application ACKs. In some embodiments capability of being used a rejection based on a condition number of application ACKs in an integrated ACK frame or other status information may be displayed for cross layer ACK cross application ACK or cross layer cross application ACK as discussed herein. Status information may include information regarding procedures throughout such as procedures related or among others.

The processor may receive power from the power source and may be configured to distribute and or control the power to the other components in the M2M device . The power source may be any suitable device for powering the M2M device . For example the power source may include one or more dry cell batteries e.g. nickel cadmium NiCd nickel zinc NiZn nickel metal hydride NiMH lithium ion Li ion etc. solar cells fuel cells and the like.

The processor may also be coupled to the GPS chipset which is configured to provide location information e.g. longitude and latitude regarding the current location of the M2M device . It will be appreciated that the M2M device may acquire location information by way of any suitable location determination method while remaining consistent with an embodiment.

The processor may further be coupled to other peripherals which may include one or more software and or hardware modules that provide additional features functionality and or wired or wireless connectivity. For example the peripherals may include an accelerometer an e compass a satellite transceiver a sensor a digital camera for photographs or video a universal serial bus USB port a vibration device a television transceiver a hands free headset a Bluetooth module a frequency modulated FM radio unit a digital music player a media player a video game player module an Internet browser and the like.

In operation CPU fetches decodes and executes instructions and transfers information to and from other resources via the computer s main data transfer path system bus . Such a system bus connects the components in computing system and defines the medium for data exchange. System bus typically includes data lines for sending data address lines for sending addresses and control lines for sending interrupts and for operating the system bus. An example of such a system bus is the PCI Peripheral Component Interconnect bus.

Memory devices coupled to system bus include random access memory RAM and read only memory ROM . Such memories include circuitry that allows information to be stored and retrieved. ROMs generally contain stored data that cannot easily be modified. Data stored in RAM can be read or changed by CPU or other hardware devices. Access to RAM and or ROM may be controlled by memory controller . Memory controller may provide an address translation function that translates virtual addresses into physical addresses as instructions are executed. Memory controller may also provide a memory protection function that isolates processes within the system and isolates system processes from user processes. Thus a program running in a first mode can access only memory mapped by its own process virtual address space it cannot access memory within another process s virtual address space unless memory sharing between the processes has been set up.

In addition computing system may contain peripherals controller responsible for communicating instructions from CPU to peripherals such as printer keyboard mouse and disk drive .

Display which is controlled by display controller is used to display visual output generated by computing system . Such visual output may include text graphics animated graphics and video. Display may be implemented with a CRT based video display an LCD based flat panel display gas plasma based flat panel display or a touch panel. Display controller includes electronic components required to generate a video signal that is sent to display .

Further computing system may contain network adaptor that may be used to connect computing system to an external communications network such as network of and .

It is understood that any or all of the systems methods and processes described herein may be embodied in the form of computer executable instructions i.e. program code stored on a computer readable storage medium which instructions when executed by a machine such as a computer server M2M terminal device M2M gateway device or the like perform and or implement the systems methods and processes described herein. Specifically any of the steps operations or functions described above may be implemented in the form of such computer executable instructions. Computer readable storage media include both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information but such computer readable storage media do not includes signals. Computer readable storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other physical medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a computer.

In describing preferred embodiments of the subject matter of the present disclosure as illustrated in the Figures specific terminology is employed for the sake of clarity. The claimed subject matter however is not intended to be limited to the specific terminology so selected and it is to be understood that each specific element includes all technical equivalents that operate in a similar manner to accomplish a similar purpose.

This written description uses examples to disclose the invention including the best mode and also to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the invention including making and using any devices or systems and performing any incorporated methods. The patentable scope of the invention is defined by the claims and may include other examples that occur to those skilled in the art. Such other examples are intended to be within the scope of the claims if they have structural elements that do not differ from the literal language of the claims or if they include equivalent structural elements with insubstantial differences from the literal languages of the claims.

