---

title: System, method and engine for group communication
abstract: An engine, system and method for a domain social network that interconnects Internet users with at least domains owned by or of interest to those Internet users, and that may obtain and/or forward obtained dynamic data regarding those domains automatically, such as by web service or email service. The dynamic data may be used to filter and protect content and data of the respective domains, to protect users by identifying low quality web pages or malicious software or pages, to isolate or improve search results regarding the domain, and/or to improve Internet-based transaction flow, such as the creation of advertising.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09401970&OS=09401970&RS=09401970
owner: CYBEYE, INC.
number: 09401970
owner_city: Torrance
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140317
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 788 058 entitled System Method and Engine for Group Communication the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth herein in its entirety.

The present invention relates to data tracked and provided in relation to Internet browsing and more particularly to an engine system and method of providing a domain social network having business intelligence logic.

The term Web 2.0 is commonly associated with web applications that facilitate interactive information sharing interoperability user centered design and collaboration on the World Wide Web WWW also referred to hereinafter as the Internet or a network further includes intranet extranet and the like . Web 2.0 thus necessarily includes aspects of connecting non virtual identity to virtual identity on the WWW using a data feed comprised of data relationships and business and data intelligence. As used hereinthroughout and unless otherwise noted the term identity is defined to include non virtual and or virtual aspects of a person interacting on with or with others on the WWW.

In an example of a typical social network Facebook connects an identity with other persons based on for example friendship. Further persons using a social network platform such as the Facebook platform may generate activities events and the like as indicated from the respective Facebook account associated with each respective identity. Once generated the Facebook platform may automatically feed friends activities events and the like to third person friends of the identity such as when such activities or events are occurring or have occurred.

However Facebook connects persons to persons or persons entities such as businesses to person entities. Facebook does not provide any interconnection for domains associated with those persons or entities. Thus in typical social environments such as Facebook persons entities generate and receive the data. That is the Facebook platform feeds data to and from the friends identified as being associated with each identity. Needless to say data generated in this way and absent data monitoring regarding domain names associated with the persons entities on Facebook severely limits the usefulness of the data generated by such typical social sites particularly for advertising purposes for example.

Further there are over 200 million domains as of 2010 and over 1.8 billion web users. These users are running approximately 15 billion web searches a year which leads each user to 2 3 unknown websites per day on average. Such websites if unknown to the user and without any way for the user to have a trusted party such as a social network friend or a trusted domain that indicates the acceptability of the unknown site may pose a risk to users such as an increased likelihood of phishing or providing malware.

Thus there is a need for a domain social network that interconnects data regarding identities i.e. persons entities to data regarding domains. More particularly there is a need for an engine system and method to generate domain data using and that itself provides business intelligence logic wherein data is related such as for sales advertising or trustworthiness purposes to an identity s activity.

The present invention provides an engine system and method for a domain social network that interconnects Internet users with at least domains owned by or of interest to those Internet users and that may obtain and or forward obtained dynamic data regarding those domains automatically such as by web service or email service. The dynamic data may be used to filter and protect content and data of the respective domains to protect users by identifying low quality web pages or malicious software or pages to isolate or improve search results regarding the domain and or to improve Internet based transaction flow such as the creation of advertising.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory and are intended to provide further explanation of the invention as discussed hereinthroughout.

A computer implemented platform and methods of use are disclosed that provide networked access to a plurality of types of digital content including but not limited to video audio and document content and that track and deliver the accessed content. Described embodiments are intended to be exemplary and not limiting. As such it is contemplated that the herein described systems and methods can be adapted to provide many types of users with access and delivery of many types of domain data and can be extended to provide enhancements and or additions to the exemplary services described. The invention is intended to include all such extensions. Reference will now be made in detail to various exemplary and illustrative embodiments of the present invention.

It is appreciated that although exemplary computing system is shown to comprise a single CPU such description is merely illustrative as computing system may comprise a plurality of CPUs . Additionally computing system may exploit the resources of remote CPUs not shown for example through communications network or some other data communications means.

In operation CPU fetches decodes and executes instructions from a computer readable storage medium such as HDD . Such instructions can be included in software such as an operating system OS executable programs and the like. Information such as computer instructions and other computer readable data is transferred between components of computing system via the system s main data transfer path. The main data transfer path may use a system bus architecture although other computer architectures not shown can be used such as architectures using serializers and deserializers and crossbar switches to communicate data between devices over serial communication paths. System bus can include data lines for sending data address lines for sending addresses and control lines for sending interrupts and for operating the system bus. Some busses provide bus arbitration that regulates access to the bus by extension cards controllers and CPU . Devices that attach to the busses and arbitrate access to the bus are called bus masters. Bus master support also allows multiprocessor configurations of the busses to be created by the addition of bus master adapters containing processors and support chips.

Memory devices coupled to system bus can include random access memory RAM and read only memory ROM . Such memories include circuitry that allows information to be stored and retrieved. ROMs generally contain stored data that cannot be modified. Data stored in RAM can be read or changed by CPU or other hardware devices. Access to RAM and or ROM may be controlled by memory controller . Memory controller may provide an address translation function that translates virtual addresses into physical addresses as instructions are executed. Memory controller may also provide a memory protection function that isolates processes within the system and isolates system processes from user processes. Thus a program running in user mode can normally access only memory mapped by its own process virtual address space it cannot access memory within another process virtual address space unless memory sharing between the processes has been set up.

In addition computing system may contain peripheral controller responsible for communicating instructions using a peripheral bus from CPU to peripherals such as printer keyboard and mouse . An example of a peripheral bus is the Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus.

Display which is controlled by display controller can be used to display visual output generated by computing system . Such visual output may include text graphics animated graphics and or video for example. Display may be implemented with a CRT based video display an LCD based flat panel display gas plasma based flat panel display touch panel or the like. Display controller includes electronic components required to generate a video signal that is sent to display .

Further computing system may contain network adapter which may be used to couple computing system to an external communication network which may include or provide access to the Internet and hence which may provide or include tracking of and access to the domain data discussed herein. Communications network may provide user access to computing system with means of communicating and transferring software and information electronically. For example users may communicate with computing system using communication means such as email direct data connection virtual private network VPN Skype or other online video conferencing services or the like. Additionally communications network may provide for distributed processing which involves several computers and the sharing of workloads or cooperative efforts in performing a task. It is appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing communications links between computing system and remote users may be used.

It is appreciated that exemplary computing system is merely illustrative of a computing environment in which the herein described systems and methods may operate and does not limit the implementation of the herein described systems and methods in computing environments having differing components and configurations as the inventive concepts described herein may be implemented in various computing environments using various components and configurations.

As shown in computing system can be deployed in networked computing environment . In general the above description for computing system applies to server client and peer computers deployed in a networked environment for example server laptop computer and desktop computer . illustrates an exemplary illustrative networked computing environment with a server in communication with client computing and or communicating devices via a communications network in which the herein described apparatus and methods may be employed.

As shown in server may be interconnected via a communications network which may include any of or any combination of a fixed wire or wireless LAN WAN intranet extranet peer to peer network virtual private network the Internet or other communications network such as POTS ISDN VoIP PSTN etc. with a number of client computing communication devices such as laptop computer wireless mobile telephone wired telephone personal digital assistant user desktop computer and or other communication enabled devices not shown . Server can comprise dedicated servers operable to process and communicate data such as digital content to and from client devices etc. using any of a number of known protocols such as hypertext transfer protocol HTTP file transfer protocol FTP simple object access protocol SOAP wireless application protocol WAP or the like. Additionally networked computing environment can utilize various data security protocols such as secured socket layer SSL pretty good privacy PGP virtual private network VPN security or the like. Each client device etc. can be equipped with an operating system operable to support one or more computing and or communication applications such as a web browser not shown email not shown or the like to interact with server .

As used herein the term domain social network is defined to include any connecting of a non virtual or virtual identity with an Internet domain such as based on ownership of or interests reflected on the domain on a network . More particularly a domain social network may automatically feed domain data regarding the domains followed by each of the afore discussed identities such as domain data regarding available social media activities or events of likely interest to each of the identities based on the followed domain s such as via web service or email service to the identities who follow those domains on a front end and to the domains that are followed on a back end. The domain information social media activities and performance events related to the domain s followed by a particular identity may further generate business intelligence as to the interests of that identity.

An Internet domain typically represents an identity such as of a business as well as the branding and reputation of that business. As such a domain name constitutes a business asset. In some cases reliance or trust placed in the brand associated with the domain name asset may be used maliciously such as by hackers or others who use that trust to spread spam or viruses on the Internet.

Therefore domain name owners need to protect and cultivate the use of their respective brands. In part this cultivation necessitates that domain owners know the social media data and website performance data regarding the owned domain s as well as that of competitive domains or related domains. It is highly desirable to know this social media data and website performance data about domains of interest before making any judgment or entering into any engagement such as for advertising. Gaining this knowledge in advance regarding oneself ones competitors and Internet third parties prior to entering into web based engagements is good Internet citizenship at least in that learning about domains and domain related data before that data is used or shared with others helps stem the spread of bad web pages malicious software and viruses spam and the like to users who have placed their respective trust in particular domains.

Search engines and user generated content platforms such as Facebook or Twitter could use domain related data if available to value a domain or an identity associated with a domain to filter and protect its content data and users such as in avoiding malicious or low quality content and for advertiser s purposes. However prior to the advent of the present invention and its domain social network search engines and user generated content platforms did not have access to such data. Rather if such data was desired one had to search for third party data tracking entities and open one s site to allow such entity to track piece by piece the domain information desired. Thereafter such data would have to be manually searched in order to make use of it and this manual search would need to be repeated for each domain owned or in which there was interest.

The present invention provides an engine system and method for a domain social network that interconnects Internet users with at least domains owned or interested by those Internet users and that may obtain and or forward the dynamic data automatically such as by web service or email service. The dynamic data may be used to filter and protect content and data of the respective domains to protect users by identifying low quality web pages or malicious software or pages to isolate or improve search results regarding the domain and or to improve Internet based deal flow such as advertising.

In order to provide this engine system and method the present invention may include a front end engine and a back end engine as illustrated in . Each of the backend engine and the front end engine may be or include as discussed hereinabove with respect to at least one microprocessor such as within a server and at least one access node to at least one network such as the Internet.

The backend engine which may take the exemplary format illustrated in for example may automatically crawl and collect publicly available domain information and may use that data to calculate a domain valuation such as using a formula included in the aspects of the present invention based on for example website traffic number of followers favorites markers searchable page numbers and domain age.

The backend may also for example analyze a domain s adult attribute such as based on the domain link outs keywords and the known adult attributes for certain domains. The backend may further compile domain competitor data. The accumulated domain information may be generated for example as domain report data accessible to users. The access to this domain report data may be exposed for example by a browser bookmarklet a browser add on or a domain social network website hereinafter collectively bookmarklet that may provide a thin client interface to reporting. Access may further include a vendor feed such as via an application programming interface API .

The domain social network bookmarklet may thus be graphically a front end feature that is an add on to any web browser. As such it may be downloaded or dragged and dropped or added via a favorites bar without a software download. In short the bookmarklet may allow for social bookmarking that is sharing of bookmarks with others and indicating to domain owners whether a user has bookmarked the owned domain such as for marketing sales purposes .

The bookmarklet may give the user peace of mind for an unknown website such as by giving linkouts keywords and website physical location for example or may allow a user to follow a known domain such as by indicating the domain giving an option to follow providing keywords and providing competitors for example at the user s direction and upon production by the browser for example. All such information may of course be accumulated by the back end for production by the bookmarklet front end.

Further the providing of the bookmarklet may greatly enhance page views and thus may contribute to and allow the provider of the bookmarklet to obtain a share of enhanced advertising revenue. For example if the user requests the bookmarklet such as by clicking Track on any given web page the user may be enabled to Check the site to return or receive information from Like the site which will bring friends to the site or Share the site which will invite friends to the site based on the information provided in the bookmarklet. This increased traffic to the site will provide increased ad revenue correspondent thereto.

More particularly and by way of non limiting example via the bookmarklet any Internet user may access the domain information from the backend engine such as by viewing any web page providing a Check as discussed hereinthroughout. The Internet user may by way of non limiting example indicate a Like a Share or a Follow action such as to save any web page share any web page to third party and or to follow the indicated domain in the domain social network.

The Check process may also trigger the backend engine to perform business intelligence social discovery and performance discovery as discussed hereinthroughout. An increase in the number of users may thereby generate more discovery data and more domain information thus increasing the safety knowledge and hence enjoyment of all Internet users while additionally improving web based economic transactions such as advertising. Yet more particularly the backend may generate social discovery data and performance data based on a data request such as by way of non limiting example by way of a Discover. 

A user may such as via the front end join the domain social network and such joinder may include definition of the relationship with owned or interested domains. This may by way of non limiting example be termed a Follow. Further to increase the convenience of a Follow a group name or tag may be assigned to followed domains.

As more particularly illustrated in the backend system may generate domain information which may include valuation data and adult attribute data and provide such information to the frontend. This information may be accessible by the user through the use of for example the aforementioned browser add on bookmarklet website service email service or phone service such as by allowing certain aspects of the domain information to be presented to the user. A user may also become a member of the domain social network so as to follow particular domains of interest for example.

Thus in a manner similar to that discussed herein for tracked sites the front end bookmarklet may provide either to a surfing user or a domain owner critical information regarding the health of the domain. Users employing this feature may allow registered users to follow any domain for its website information ranking competitive analysis and performance tracking as well as for social discoveries about its domains. Again information regarding these factors is accumulated by the backend of the present invention and provided to the front end.

As further illustrated in the user may thereby be presented with metrics relevant to the URL being visited or to be potentially viewed. In addition to tagging the URL in accordance with specific user preferences the user may be provided information regarding the title of the website the amount of traffic to the website in a given period of time a summary correspondent to the content of the website related or competitive websites to the one of interest a listing of websites which a referenced or link out from the site of interest and the website origination location for example.

The backend system further has discovery capabilities such as for social discovery and performance discovery. Accumulated domain information and discovery data may feed to domain social network members automatically such as by web service email service or phone service. Domain information data may further feed to third parties by API.

The backend may collect each domain s identity information traffic information link outs link ins following or favorites marking and adult attribute data and may therefrom calculate domain valuation based on traffic data searchable page data and domain age data. For example domain age based on year number may be a weighted factor in the valuation. Domain age of less than one year may be weighted at less than 1.0 wherein a lower valuation represents a lower popularity. For example a domain age of less than a certain period such as three months may be particularly risky for Internet users. As such a website having a lower valuation that requests user information may pose a particular risk to the user. If that web page provides a majority of its linkouts to a targeted website then the risk to the user that the page is a phishing or scam page for the target website is even higher. When such high risk web pages are detected the alert data of that high risk may be sent to the domain owner of the targeted website if it joins domain social network. Likewise individual users may be informed of the high risk of the web page.

A user may login to the domain social network to check the alert data at anytime for example. Alternatively the alert data may be batch updated such as daily. The user may check alert data for a specific domain or may group several domains together and check alert data for that group. For example a web message such as a Tweet may include a web page link to a domain having a very new domain age or an adult tag or a low domain valuation this data indicated by the performance discovery and or indicated by an alert may preclude addition of this domain to search engine results such as to avoid mass spread of a potentially harmful web page across Internet users.

This performance discovery may be executed from at least one cloud computing platform such as in multiple regions. Periodically such as once an hour the backends from multiple regions may read the most popular pages from a domain to calculate its loading time and page size. The down time of specific web pages may also be calculated. For example in an embodiment of performance discovery web page size data may be read and if it is similar to a previous checkup a quick loading time calculation may indicate acceptable performance without reading the full web page data. This may significantly reduce bandwidth usage but nevertheless maintain reliable checkups. In another embodiment of performance discovery if a domain report has not been used by any users for a period of time thus indicating that the domain is not popular the loading time checkup may continuously use the aforementioned quick loading time checkup such as by reading only the header data of the web page and calculating loading time or down time.

A user who joins the domain social network of the present invention may use an email address for identification and for completing the validation process. User IDs may also be incorporated from other social networks approved by the user and or associated with the identified email address for example. As would be known to those skilled in the art third party social network platforms already associated with the user and in particular with the user s email address for example may be queried and associated with the user of the present invention.

Once associated with the present invention a registered user may follow any number of selected domain names. The user may also receive reports providing information about the followed web site s which may further include information about related websites and the interactions between third party users and the related websites. Similarly a user may follow users within the system and may be provided information about that and other users internet activity.

As illustrated in for example a user who is following at least one additional user may be provided information related to what web site s were visited the duration of each visit the content accessed the relation between the visited websites and to the bookmarked web sites of the following or followed user and or the content available or bookmarked from the internet. A user may refine such information by limiting the presented information to various keywords matches for example.

A user may also claim ownership of a domain through a validation process administered through the present invention and may thereby gain access to a data or additional data related thereto. For example domain owners may provide trademark and or keyword data related to branding for inclusion with a user s alert data. However some alert data may only be provided to the domain owner.

As described previously herein a social bookmarklet or browser add on may allow a user to reach a marked web page from any web browser in any web device computer tablet smart phone etc . The present invention may for example cause a popup window to display information having at least basic domain information related to a current web page. The same window may also provide information related to the Like Share and or Follow features discussed herein and may trigger social discovery data from a current web page such as via the backend engine through to other users. As such the present invention may provide a portable aspect such as a widget that may provide the data and inventive elements for users as discussed herein. Further a unification of followed page data may be thereby provided.

As illustrated in social discovery from a web page may be facilitated through the filtering of web page content and or with the use of business intelligence logic to connect the web page information to the related domain. For example the social discovery functionality of the present invention may allow a web page to contain a web link whose display text has the domain name and link to such domain which may be provided to the user as related to the user s metrics whether such metrics are inputted by the user or calculated by the present invention based on the user s internet activity.

Social discovery data for domains may be represented using keywords indicating business intelligence rules. For example a user may follow a keyword instead of a domain name and in such a case the present invention may use domain information data to get the most matched domain list for that keyword. By way of example the keyword spyware may be linked to one set of domains that have the most high valuation with spyware in their respective domain information data i.e. in their respective domain name title description keywords etc. . The social discovery data for such keyword may then be converted to obtaining social discovery for the indicated domain list.

In a further exemplary embodiment illustrated in a user may compile a certain subset of Check gathered information to determine whether a particular website meets the criteria the user has set such as for example the website s popularity or overall access safety. Such information may include for example the topics covered by the website the name of the website the ranking provided by correlating third party usage the number or ranking with respect to followers or favorite markers a latest news posting a social network posting related to the website and or the time between visits to the website by the user or a third party associated with the user such as in the user s social network. Having such information available to the user may allow the user to make a determination as to the fitness and utility of the target website. Such information may also allow a user to qualify the usefulness of a website without ever having actually landed on or been availed to the direct content of the particular website.

A user may also allow certain third party posts about particular websites to be displayed in the user s access panel. Such posts may provide a social network wherein the user may access opinion and content offered by the poster about the website of interest. Although such information may be included in the overall ranking associated with the website of interest third party posts may include more detailed information and may allow the user to make a more refined decision as to the quality of the web site.

For example a commenting user may provide a link to the web site being commented upon and may include a statement form original authorship or copy and paste some prior created content whether directly from the web site being commented on or related content from a third party source. In any event the present invention may also associate with the post information related to the web site such as for example the ranking of the web site and an indication of when the post was created.

As further illustrated in an alert may be based on user grouped domains to present the latest down time data and latest social discovery data. Similarly an alert may send an email once a day to a domain user for latest social discovery data based on user followed domains and may send instant communications to a domain user when detected down time based on used followed domains.

Finally is an illustration of the following of a domain symantec.com in this case and the obtaining of social discovery data and domain information related thereto. This information may be shared in accordance with the present invention such as by email with other users who may read the social discovery data and elect to also follow the domain. Thereby the present invention provides viral marketing of the domain. Further in this exemplary embodiment the social discovery data may reveal the discovery by the domain of a security flaw and data leak by a third party website and multiple media websites with a link to the domain. Thus the story may be cached by the backend and linked to the domain.

As described herein the present invention may be used on any GUI functional electronic device such as for example desktop PCs mobile phones tablets smart watches smart clothing and similarly functional items as would be appreciated by those skilled in the art. Although maximum functionality may be enjoyed when access to the web is enabled the present invention may operate on a closed network and or in an offline manner. The GUI and underlying programming may support the syncing of web based content such as a browser view for example audio video s photo s resident on the web or local to at least one device and location information between users which may result in geo based smart data exchange for example. Such an exchange may allow at least two users to share information and to be location aware of not only each other but of occurrences for which they may have an association. Similarly language barriers may be limited or neutralized by allowing for the translation of content between users of known language differences.

As further described herein the present invention may provide for the syncing of media content between devices for example allow for the grouping of photos and media by locations and users allow for the tagging of media allow for audio to be paired with photos and allow for the sharing of media content with third party social networks. The present invention may also provide for the creation of channel and allow for physical movement of a device to activate various device actions for example.

As illustrated in the present invention may allow for interconnection through at least one cloud based server and may allow for content monitoring of the at least one stream of information passing between at least two of a plurality of users. For example a contributor may capture create certain media via a mobile device and share such media through the present invention for it to be made available to at least one additional user. The media associated with the present invention may be interrogated and may have identified various characteristics and parts such as as discussed herein any included URLs embedded links users attributes and time and or location information for example. Such an interrogation may also identify and flag and or neutralize malicious programs and or URLs as discussed above.

At least a portion of the information gathered through at least the interrogation of at least one media may be used to identify suitable advertising which may be associated with either the contributor of the media a user of the system who may have accessed the media or like content including media having similarly based interrogation results or the media itself. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the use of various ad delivery techniques may be employed and may for example be in the form of targeted ad delivery based on information collected about a particular user of the system.

A non contributor to the system who may at some point be a contributor for example may browse share comment purchase and or otherwise interact with media accessible through the present invention. Users may be limited to the media made available to them by strict per user access rules and or association with one or more occurrences as discussed herein.

As illustrated in the present invention may allow for the display of location based information which may be presented in the form of a map display for example and or other icon representations. For example a meeting between at least two users of the present invention may be noted by an icon which may be selected and which may indicate not only the location of the meeting whether virtual and or physically located but also information which may be associated with the meeting such as communication particulars participant information rules and or topics for the meeting for example. In this way the present invention may provide a hosting environment for various groups of friends business colleagues family members and the like. The location information presented and or utilized by the user including the user s own location may be used to provide ad delivery as discussed herein which delivery may be based on in part the users location information as well as other meeting information.

The present invention may also provide for communication between users and may conveniently provide such communication features such as text based chatting for example. Although a communication gateway between users may be provided in any manner appreciated to those skilled in the art the use of a chat based communication may provide more easily modularized access and containment of certain communications. For example a meeting with a user named Paul may have three communication points which may be associated with a location name such as for example New Room 3room and 2room. In this way communication traffic may be coordinated and controlled by rules defined by a user.

If for example users are in a virtual room location information regarding each user may be made available to at least one user and may for example take the form of a map as illustrated in . This functionality may allow a user to better determine what the physical availability of participants for example and may be an indication of what each participant may be doing e.g. if the participant is in an expected location . As would be appreciated by those skilled in the art such a location display of users may be used to show any users of the present invention and not so limited to those engaged in a particular meeting and or communication link.

To better navigate the various function discussed herein a channel may be created to better organize various features provided by the present invention. For example as illustrated in channels may be presented for selection by a user and may be created by a user who may in turn define the information and or functionality accessible through a particular icon. For example the Bing Academy may be a customized channel providing a specific line of information for example. Similarly the Popular channel may be a channel present by the present invention without user customization and may aggregate various content information apps that are deemed to be used more than other such features in accordance with rules which may be predefined to provide a limited number of popular features.

Additional functionality may be provided by the present invention as illustrated in which may allow a user to access account information and settings which may provide at least one rule to be applied within the system in association with the user and or the user s associated meetings communications. As illustrated in a user profile may be selected and may be provided the opportunity to log into the system using at least one password and or security profile.

A feature provided by the present invention may include the sharing of content from one device to another as described above and may allow for the easy sharing of a web page between mobile devices as illustrated in . Accessing the present invention may be provided through at least one access point which may when activated provide at least one menu which may include for example access to share functionality. Although such a link may directly share to a designated user the web page URL for example additional options may include the send of a screen shot as illustrated in for example. The same functionality may be provided on a desktop PC and or tablet such as illustrated in for example.

As discussed above the location information related to any user may be shared throughout the system. To prevent misuse of such information for example a user may be prompted to allow for the sharing of location information as illustrated in . In addition if the user allows the location information to be disseminated a user my further provide rules and or limits on how long location information may be presented and by what means the user may be contacted as illustrated in . In this way a user may expose their location and use of the system and may then be invited to a meeting and or otherwise interacted with for at least some user defined period of time.

The present invention may also be used to provide a platform which may provide a quiz or other query and or educational enabled GUI such as illustrated in . In this way users may be invited to join a game and may organize a meeting around a game to increase participation and the effect of the game.

The present invention may also provide a location based media sharing platform such as the exchange of photos taken with a mobile device for example. As illustrated in such a feature may include at least some information regarding the location of the user and or the location of the photo taken. The user may be presented with the option of posting the photo to a particular channel publishing the photo to a third party social network sending to photo to another mobile device and or pinning the photo to the location to record the origin of the photo. Photos may be stored by the present invention and cataloged with time and or location information to allow for searching and retrieval by for example location and or user.

The present invention may also track in a predefined manner the location of at least one mobile device. For example a user may set at least one rule set which may cause the present invention to record the location of the mobile device every 10 minutes for example. Similarly information collected may further include what apps programs URLs are being accessed utilized by the mobile device at the time of recording. In this way a record of the device location and utilization may be recorded by the present invention. As illustrated in for example the location of a mobile device may be periodically recorded and mapped as the device moves between two metropolitan areas. A user of the present invention who may have access to this information may for example simply select a pin which may be associated with the information collected at the designated interval.

As illustrated in the present invention may provide a GUI which may allow for the easy organizing and managing of chats within and or between events. As described herein limits may be placed on the distribution of such communications within the system and may allow for group communication chat within a channel for example.

As illustrated in a user may have access to account information such as for example user name contact info system subscriber information assign channels between users tag media to a channel s and or use and or purchase system points for use in buying services and or goods.

Although information and media may be imputed into the present system in various ways known to those skilled in the art as illustrated in a GUI interface may be provided to allow for the recording of media on to a mobile device for subsequent use in the system. Additionally a microphone icon for example may be provided to allow for a user to add commentary or other verbal direction and associate the same with the uploaded media. Any media created by the enable mobile device for example may be associated with location information. As illustrated in media such as photos for example may be located by the present invention on at least one map. Such a feature of the present invention may also share automatically media with an event user automatically.

Similarly as illustrated in media may be shared through at least one channel and may be tagged as such and or may be automatically feed into a channel. Media may also be tagged to at least one keyword which may allow for more easily searching within the system. As illustrated in communication in the system may be user host controlled and may allow for text and audio to be combined. Similarly audio that is longer than typical chat communications may be broken into smaller pieces of about ten minutes.

In an embodiment of the present invention media may be automatically tagged with at least the time location and or associated event information. Further as illustrated in media may be shared by shake and share through movement of a mobile device and may also be secured with at least one passcode. The user may also set the time for which the mobile device needs to be shaken and in what manner to effectuate the desired feature.

Additionally as illustrated in the present invention may allow for the searching and configuration of the posted media. The present invention may allow for example information from at least two sources such as for example two URLs. The media may be tagged as described above and may allow and or limit the media to specific viewing times locations and or events.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that the herein described systems and methods are susceptible to various modifications and alternative constructions. There is no intention to limit the scope of the invention to the specific constructions described herein. Rather the herein described systems and methods are intended to cover all modifications alternative constructions and equivalents falling within the scope and spirit of the invention and its equivalents.

