---

title: Online marketplace for pre-installed software and online services
abstract: The subject disclosure relates to pre-installed software and services, such as online services, and markets for pre-installed software and online services. In one aspect, the disclosed subject matter facilitates contracting between software vendors and device manufacturers or redistributors for placement and/or conversion of software applications or services in devices. As further advantages, embodiments of the disclosed subject matter can provide transparency into markets for device placement and can facilitate detailed contract performance tracking. Further non-limiting embodiments are provided that illustrate the advantages and flexibility of the disclosed subject matter.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09053505&OS=09053505&RS=09053505
owner: RIGHTWARE, INC.
number: 09053505
owner_city: Kirkland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140102
---
This application claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 116 817 now U.S. Pa. No. 8 650 558 filed on May 26 2011 and entitled ONLINE MARKETPLACE FOR PRE INSTALLED SOFTWARE AND ONLINE SERVICES and to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 349 068 filed on May 27 2010 and entitled ONLINE MARKETPLACE FOR PRE INSTALLED SOFTWARE AND ONLINE SERVICES the entireties of each of which applications are hereby incorporated by reference.

The subject disclosure is directed to software and services and more specifically relates to pre installed software and services such as online services and tracking transactions for pre installed software and online services and markets for pre installed software and online services.

In the market for devices and software pre installation of software and services such as online services has become key to profitability for electronic device manufacturers such as original equipment manufacturers OEMs etc. For example for OEMs pre installations or preloads account for a growing portion of device profitability. For instance over the time frame of 2007 to 2012 the average selling price of a personal computer PC is expected to decrease over 7 year over year while OEMs are expected to make about a 5 10 margin on the hardware. Thus it is clear that payments by independent software vendors ISVs for pre installation of software or services can have the ability to drastically impact the dwindling hardware margin.

However whether it is for a large PC and laptop manufacturer bundling an antivirus application with a PC or laptop or whether it is a small mobile phone manufacturer preloading internet search functionality on a new mobile device conventionally there is no efficient way for buyers and sellers of the multitude of software or services available from ISVs to see what placement opportunities are available for the myriad of OEM devices which are ever diversifying with shorter and shorter obsolescence cycles and to transact business therefor. As a result such transactions are typically limited to extremely high volumes of business where the excessive transaction costs are more easily offset by the extremely high volumes.

For example for ISVs pre installation of software and services or preloads can result in discovery of the availability of the software or services and can present an easily accessed opportunity to a user to convert from the pre installed version of the software or services e.g. trial versions limited functionality versions inactive versions etc. to an enhanced access version of the software or services based on a purchase subscription and so on of the enhanced access. For instance typical conversion rates for pre installation of software and services can range from 25 for applications or services such as antivirus applications or services to 5 7 for productivity software or entertainment services. However an ISV that desires placement on an OEM device would typically have to craft a unique or custom image of the software or service for the particular OEM device which may have limited applicability to another disparate OEM device. Accordingly each particular placement on a particular OEM device can have transaction costs for the ISV associated with the particular placement.

In addition as described due to high transaction costs transactions for the pre installation of software and services on OEM devices transactions are typically limited to situations involving extremely high volumes of business where the excessive transaction costs are more easily offset by the extremely high volumes. Thus deals for preloaded software or online service are conventionally made in one off large scale and manpower intensive negotiations where the ability to recapture or reuse information gained in the negotiations is highly limited. For instance preloaded software or online service deals are typically made between the largest software or service providers and the largest OEMs or device redistributors e.g. so called Tier 1 OEMs such as Hewlett Packard Lenovo Apple Dell Samsung etc. based on extremely deal specific terms and conditions that typically do not easily transfer and apply to another deal with one or more different parties to the deal.

Moreover these deals are typically only two party deals made between one specific software or service provider and one specific OEM or device redistributor for the pre installation of the provider s software and or services on the OEM s or the redistributor s devices to the exclusion of all other potential market participants e.g. other OEMs device redistributors software providers service providers . That is when the deals are struck between the largest ISVs and the largest OEMs smaller ISVs and OEMs are typically excluded from participation e.g. as a result of proprietary concerns as a practical matter etc. .

Accordingly it can be understood that such closed markets and negotiations result in inefficient pricing for the pre installation of software and services resulting from high information costs imperfect information lack of available substitutes etc. As a further result these excessive transaction costs can practically prevent certain participants from gaining access to the markets for preloaded software or online services. For instance in the conventional deal unless an OEM or an ISV can support sufficient shipments of devices or result in sufficient conversions of preinstalled software or services then the likelihood that such a deal would provide revenue in excess of the transaction costs to strike the bargain and or perform to its conditions can be slim. Thus as described these transaction costs and entry barriers can practically preclude small or mid size OEMs and ISVs from engaging deals.

In addition conventional deals as described typically lack the ability to track deal level information. For instance while conventional deals may be able to track gross conversion information based on hardware or software specific information e.g. what hardware is the source of the conversion based on a hardware identification ID number what browser operating system and so on is used to convert the preinstalled software or service etc. how the conversion is related back to the terms of the numerous conventional deals can typically remain a mystery. For example while an ISV may be able to tell based on a hardware ID that a particular device is responsible for the placement or conversion e.g. a particular processor etc. the ISV may not be able to tell that the hardware was configured with the placement by a particular deal counterparty e.g. Dell Nvidia Adobe Best Buy etc. . In addition the ISV may be further ignorant of one or more of the deal terms for which a conversion or other event has been contracted. As a result of this inability to accurately track the performance of the contracts for placement or conversion to the terms of the conventional deals the market participants e.g. ISVs and OEMs are further prevented from accurately determining the pricing and profitability of such contracts thereby providing further barriers to entry in the market for the pre installation of software and services.

Moreover the deficiencies associated with the inability to track the performance of contracts on a deal level illustrates further how the lack of sufficient information regarding contract performance precludes efficient pricing of the placement opportunities on devices. For instance optimized placement and pricing such as placement and pricing based on regional demands historical performance metrics market analysis or other important information is simply not available as a result of the closed proprietary or one off nature of conventional negotiations for placement opportunities as described above.

The above described deficiencies of today s pre installed software and services markets are merely intended to provide an overview of some of the problems of conventional systems and are not intended to be exhaustive. Other problems with conventional systems and corresponding benefits of the various non limiting embodiments described herein may become further apparent upon review of the following description.

The following presents a simplified summary of the specification to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the specification. This summary is not an extensive overview of the specification. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the specification nor delineate any scope particular to any embodiments of the specification or any scope of the claims. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the specification in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

As used herein the terms original equipment manufacturers OEMs equipment vendors EVs device redistributors and the like are intended to refer interchangeably depending on the context to entities or one or more automated device or systems intermediaries or agents acting for or on behalf of the entities that can employ aspects of the disclosed subject matter to facilitate contracting for and or filling placement opportunities on one or more devices within an entity s responsibility with applications such as software applications or links or references thereto etc. or services such as online services or links or references thereto etc. as further described herein. In addition the terms software vendor independent software vendor ISV and so on are intended to refer interchangeably depending on the context to entities or one or more automated devices or systems intermediaries or agents acting for or on behalf of the entities that can employ aspects of the disclosed subject matter to facilitate contracting for and or providing compensation as an incentive to place applications such as software applications or links or references thereto etc. or services such as online services or links or references thereto etc. on one or more devices as further described herein.

Thus as further used herein the term placement opportunity is intended to refer to an opportunity available from an OEM or like entities to place applications such as software applications or links or references thereto etc. or service such as online services or links or references thereto etc. on one or more devices within the OEM s responsibility. Accordingly depending on the context a placement opportunity can be any opportunity that an ISV for example can take advantage of by contracting according to aspects of the disclosed subject matter for example to get the ISV s one or more application s such as software applications or links or references thereto etc. or one or more service s such as online services or links or references thereto etc. placed on one or more devices the object of which is to gain revenue by enticing a user of the one or more devices to convert the one or more application s the one or more service s or one or more link s or reference s thereto to for example a purchased version an upgraded version a paid subscription a renewed subscription more applications in a related application bundle etc.

Accordingly the term conversion depending on the context is intended to refer broadly to any event for which by employing aspects of the disclosed subject matter compensation and or payment can be contracted for relating to behavior of a user or one or more automated devices or systems intermediaries or agents acting for or on behalf of the user of the one or more devices regarding the one or more application s the one or more service s or one or more link s or reference s thereto placed on the one or more devices. For instance as non limiting examples a conversion can include selling to the user a device with the placed application service or link or reference thereto the placement the user viewing the placement activating the device the user clicking accessing invoking executing and so on etc. the placement visiting a website or other resource associated with the placement downloading the application activating the service purchasing an application upgrading a version of the application purchasing a subscription renewing a subscription purchasing more applications in a related application bundle etc. Further examples of a conversion will become apparent on review of the disclosed subject matter.

Thus a conversion opportunity is intended to refer to any opportunity available to a user of the one or more devices for a conversion. As non limiting examples depending on a number of factors related to contract formation such as for example device location specific placement or entry point preferences e.g. whether an application service or reference thereto is placed on the device taskbar desktop start menu browser favorite general pop up context specific pop up etc. number of placements desired by an ISV conversion terms such as what constitutes a conversion other contract terms device type category of software or service and so on etc. the user of the device can be presented with one or more conversion opportunities to convert the application the service or a link or a reference thereto etc. into an upgraded an activated or otherwise converted software application or an activated a renewed a subscribed or otherwise converted online service.

As further used herein the terms unique and or trackable depending on the context are to be understood and appreciated with respect to the abilities of aspects of the disclosed subject matter to enable or facilitate tracking contracts for placement of software and or services on one or more devices terms and or devices associated with the contracts and or behavior of devices and associated users to track performance under such contracts. Accordingly the terms unique and trackable can be used interchangeable depending on the context. For instance so long as a contract an attribute etc. is trackable relative to other contracts attributes etc. in a given scope or context a unique contract identification number or a unique entry point identification number need not be globally unique so long as it is trackable amongst its peers. Thus the term unique is to be understood and appreciated with respect to a relevant scope of application. For instance in a global scope of application for a contract or entry point identification number to be unique in the conventional sense and thus trackable and distinguishable from all others it would imply that there are no others like it. However recognizing practical limitations it is more likely that in a reduced scope of application having a unique or locally unique identification number would imply that although the contract attribute etc. is trackable by various implementations of the disclosed subject matter the identification number used in tracking may not be globally unique. 

In addition use of the term number such as in the terms identification number and so on is intended to refer broadly to any combination of numbers letters symbols or other characters that can be combined and employed for the purpose of identification and or tracking as described herein.

In various embodiments the disclosed subject matter relates to software and services and more specifically relates to pre installation of software and services such as online services and markets for pre installation of software and online services or references thereto. In one non limiting aspect the disclosed subject matter facilitates contracting between software vendors and device manufacturers or redistributors for placement and or conversion of software applications or services in devices. As further advantages exemplary embodiments of the disclosed subject matter can provide transparency into markets for device placement and can facilitate detailed contract performance tracking.

For instance to the foregoing and related ends systems devices and methods are disclosed that can facilitate contracting between one or more ISV s and one or more OEM s for placement or conversion of a software application or a service or a link or a reference thereto etc. on a device e.g. an OEM device etc. distributing software or promoting online services device customization and or pre installing software applications or services or links or references thereto etc. on the OEM device according to various aspects of the disclosed subject matter among other related functions. According to various non limiting embodiments the disclosed subject matter can facilitate creating contract information such as a unique contract identification number in response to a contract formed between an ISV and an OEM for placement or conversion of a software application or a service on the OEM device. According to further non limiting implementations the disclosed subject matter facilitates tracking conversion information related to the contract information such as the unique contract identification number the software application or the service reference or the OEM device.

Accordingly exemplary embodiments of the disclosed subject matter can provide exemplary methods that facilitate contracting for placement or conversion of software applications or services on an OEM device. In further non limiting implementations exemplary systems can facilitate pre installing software applications or services or links or references thereto etc. on a device e.g. an OEM device etc. .

In addition further exemplary methods are directed to distributing software or promoting online services and device customization as further detailed herein.

As described above markets for the pre installation of software and services on devices are fraught with inefficiencies and barriers to entry. For instance as described above each party to a transaction for the pre installed software or services e.g. an ISV an OEM or device redistributor etc. bears substantial transaction costs in the transacting and performance of placement or conversion of software or services references on devices which precludes entry to certain market participants and results in inefficient pricing. Accordingly in non limiting embodiments the disclosed subject matter can provide the ability for OEMs to partner with ISVs online to place software and or services or links or references thereto etc. on the OEMs devices in exchange for commissions. In addition the disclosed subject matter can facilitate managing these partnerships with a graphical user interface GUI e.g. a user interface accessible over a network via a web browser etc. .

Thus in various aspects the disclosed subject matter can facilitate easily and efficiently finding placement and or conversion opportunities transacting therefore and tracking and managing deals for preloaded software and or services or links or references thereto etc. with substantially lower transaction costs than heretofore possible by conventional deal making processes. Accordingly in various non limiting implementations the disclosed subject matter can provide marketplace systems and methods for transacting for the pre installation of software and services such as online services. In addition in further non limiting embodiments the disclosed subject matter can provide market research such as analytics e.g. regarding global software and online service usage etc. metrics e.g. data regarding specific placements performance measurements traffic quality regarding visitor usage and conversion information and so on etc. and other valuable insights as described below to marketplace participants e.g. ISVs OEMs device redistributors etc. .

For example the disclosed subject matter can in various embodiments provide a marketplace such as market that can facilitate transactions in categories of software and online services e.g. such as major categories sub categories etc. including but not limited to privacy security productivity browser search multimedia entertainment and gaming for any number and variety of devices ranging from desktop computers laptops and tablets to mobile phones and other devices e.g. network capable or otherwise such as televisions gaming consoles appliances etc. To these and related ends various embodiments of the disclosed subject matter include a marketplace such as market that can provide a neutral secure interactive trading exchange where marketplace participants e.g. ISVs OEMs device redistributors etc. can bid on or list opportunities e.g. via auction based listings fixed price listings etc. for the purchase or sale of pre installed software and online services or links or references thereto etc. on listed devices. In an aspect marketplace participants e.g. ISVs OEMs device redistributors etc. can be provided with the ability e.g. via generalized communication channels and etc. to negotiate and agree on essential contract terms e.g. pricing quantity delivery quality and other terms etc. online. It is further noted that generalized communication channel is further depicted in to illustrate that while some discussions herein refer to marketplace participants e.g. ISVs OEMs device redistributors etc. accomplishing aspects of the disclosed subject matter via a marketplace such as market the disclosed subject matter is not so limited. That is other communications channels between two marketplace participants e.g. ISVs OEMs device redistributors etc. besides generalized communication channels and are presumed to exist and can be employed for particular aspects of the disclosed subject matter depending on the context.

As a further example the disclosed subject matter can in various embodiments provide analytics e.g. via generalized communication paths and etc. that can provide market participants such as OEMs for example with up to date information regarding global software and or online service usage to facilitate optimizing pre installs to the needs of an intended audience. Thus as a further advantage increased conversion rates made possible by aspects of the various embodiments have multiple positive impacts on market participants such as OEMs for example. For instance not only does the disclosed subject matter enable OEMs to generate more revenue at the point of conversions than may be otherwise possible for example but based on performance demonstrated by analytics ISVs can be more willing to pay increased amounts upfront to participate in models that have high conversion rates as shown in analytics.

In yet another example the disclosed subject matter can in various embodiments provide metrics e.g. data regarding specific placements performance measurements traffic quality regarding visitor usage and conversion information and so on etc. to marketplace participants e.g. ISVs OEMs device redistributors etc. that can give the marketplace participants the ability to track specific placements and measure performance and quality of traffic by analyzing visitor usage conversion information and so on etc.

In still another example the disclosed subject matter can in further embodiments generate insights from analysis of customer usage trends e.g. market share visits page views demographics etc. and aggregated transaction data e.g. price conversions placement location or entry point device type etc. to help marketplace participants e.g. ISVs OEMs device redistributors etc. better target placements optimize revenue and create more productive user experiences.

Thus not only does the disclosed subject matter enable the negotiation of deals between participants who otherwise may not have access to the market the disclosed subject matter also allows marketplace participants e.g. ISVs OEMs device redistributors etc. to make more informed decisions regarding the purchase or sale of placement opportunities as well as enabling market research into global placement activity and managing and tracking of deals made through the marketplace such as market .

Accordingly in various embodiments an online marketplace such as market is provided for device redistributors or OEMs and software vendors such as ISVs to conduct pre installed software and online service deals e.g. via generalized communication paths and etc. . The disclosed subject matter further provides various systems devices and methods suitable for incorporation of aspects of the disclosed subject matter. For instance in particular non limiting embodiments the disclosed marketplace such as market can comprise a web based business to business B2B e commerce licensing and distribution platform such as an exchange or marketplace that can leverage a network e.g. wireless network cellular network the internet etc. to unify the currently fragmented pre installed software and on line services market. For example an exemplary exchange such as market can provide a single web destination or further web destinations targeted for specific categories or applications devices etc. where buyers and sellers of software and online services can interact and transact. Advantageously such a leveraged model can enable diverse unconstrained match making fully automated or semi autonomous negotiation and can provide the ability to rapidly scale to a wider network of marketplace participants. As a further example the exemplary exchange can enable small and or mid size OEMs e.g. so called non Tier 1 OEMs and ISVs to strike pre installed software or service distribution deals. As yet another advantage the exemplary exchange can further enable large manufacturers e.g. OEMs device redistributors etc. to strike smaller more targeted deals that have the potential to maximize per device revenue and enhance a device end user s out of box experience.

While a brief overview has been described above in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the specification various non limiting implementation scenarios are now described as a further aid in understanding the advantages and benefits of various embodiments of the disclosed subject matter. To that end it can be understood that such scenarios are merely provided as an illustration and not limitation.

For instance the disclosed subject matter can enable various operations for the marketplace participants e.g. ISVs OEMs device redistributors etc. either in direct support of contracting for placement opportunities for software or services or ancillary thereto. In one non limiting example one or more ISV s can desire to list a software application or an online service or a link or a reference thereto etc. for placement as a fixed price listing. Accordingly in an exemplary embodiment the one or more ISV s can list a software or online service for placement by for example inputting desired terms e.g. product description price device location specific placement or entry point preference e.g. taskbar desktop start menu etc. number of placements desired conversion terms other contract terms etc. which terms can then be reviewed and the listing submitted to the marketplace such as market . One or more prospective OEM s can review listings by the one or more ISV s and can accept the submitted offer of the one or more ISV s for example by indicating agreement with the terms of the submitted offer such as for example clicking an Agree to Distribute button next to the one or more ISV s submitted offer. The market place such as market can then transmit a confirmation to the one or more OEM s that agree to the submitted offer and or one or more ISV s that submitted the offer. The above can be further understood by reference to and etc. and the associated descriptions herein.

As described below it can be understood that one or more of the manual operations described above can also be accomplished on behalf of the one or more OEM s and or the one or more ISV s by an appropriately configured computing device. In other words depending on a desired level of abstraction or automation the marketplace can enable automation of any number of suitable operations which are described herein as being performed by one or more OEM s and or the one or more ISV s .

In a further non limiting example one or more OEM s can desire to list a software or online service placement opportunity as an auction based listing. Accordingly in a further non limiting embodiment the one or more OEM s can list a software or online service placement opportunity by for example inputting desired terms e.g. product specification auction date and time any reserve price device location specific placement opportunities or entry points available e.g. taskbar desktop start menu etc. number of placement opportunities available conversion terms other contract terms etc. which terms can then be reviewed and the listing submitted to the marketplace such as market . One or more prospective ISV s can review open auction listings or they can be alerted of and invited to restricted auction listings for example based on matching product specifications or other desired terms inputted by the one or more OEM s to information about the one or more prospective ISV s e.g. profile information product description placement pricing information preference information etc. . In the event of restricted auction listings the one or more prospective ISV s can then review or decline the invitation to review the listing for example and by clicking Accept or Decline for the auction invite respectively.

In any event the one or more prospective ISV s can review the submitted listings by the one or more OEM s and can bid on the submitted listing during an auction conducted by the marketplace such as market for example by indicating agreement a certain compensation level or other terms in accordance with the terms of the submitted listing. Upon conclusion of the auction the marketplace such as market can alert the winner of the auction of and the one or more OEM s with the submitted listing of agreement between the one or more prospective ISV s and the one or more OEM s with the submitted listing such as for example sending an email to the winner of the auction and the one or more OEM s with the submitted listing.

It should be noted that upon contract formation e.g. a contract formed between an ISV and an OEM for the placement of a software application or service or a link or a reference thereto etc. in the marketplace such as market contract information associated with the contract formed can be generated or created by the marketplace and stored e.g. in market to facilitate subsequent contract tracking. For instance contract information associated with the contract formed can include one or more of a unique contract identification number a reference to a contract tracking component e.g. as further described below regarding etc. a trackable attribute of the contract formed e.g. as further described below etc. a specific contract term for the contract formed e.g. payment method payment amount etc. or an ISV reference e.g. a uniform resource locator URL to an ISV webpage or other online resource operated by or on behalf of the ISV that allows a conversion e.g. software application to be purchased upgraded activated or a service to be subscribed renewed etc. as further described below regarding etc. that facilitates providing enhanced access e.g. greater functionality after conversion to the software application or the service or a link or a reference thereto etc. and other contract related information.

It can be understood that while various non limiting examples of listing types and or payment methods are described herein for the purpose of illustration the disclosed subject matter is not so limited. For instance any of a number of payment methods can be supported by the marketplace such as market . For example payments between an ISV and an OEM for placement of software and or services or links or references thereto etc. or conversion e.g. conversion upgrade click through site visit software or service purchase subscription completion renewal etc. thereof can be made in a form agreeable to the ISV and an OEM. That is methods of payment are limited only by the willingness of the ISV and the OEM to agree to the terms subject to any commission that can be required to be paid to the owner or operator of the marketplace such as market for facilitating the transaction.

It can be further understood that while the willingness of the owner or operator of the marketplace such as market to facilitate economically irrational activity on the market can pose some practical limit in a particular implementation for particular proposed payment methods there is not functional limit. Accordingly some non limiting examples of acceptable payment methods can include a royalty e.g. fixed percentage based scaled with performance or otherwise etc. based on a price paid by a user of an OEM device as part of a conversion that resulted from the contracted placement on the OEM device. Acceptable payment methods can further include an upfront bounty paid upfront e.g. based on placement only based on placement and expected conversion etc. or a bounty paid on the basis of some performance metric e.g. such as a click through a product or service activation registration upgrade or renewal an activation based on first search e.g. a fixed price for a Google Chrome browser or Desktop Search first search on an OEM device a purchase and sale flat fee similar to a royalty etc. . Further acceptable payment methods can include payments made according to a revenue sharing agreement between the ISV and the OEM. For instance for a software product that retails for a certain retail price a revenue sharing agreement between the ISV and the OEM can include paying a certain percentage of the ISV s proceeds from the placement or conversion as described above to the OEM.

Note that for the calculation of a payment in the form of a royalty or an upfront bounty an OEM can provide a number of devices shipped for calculation of payment under the payment method. Further note that for the calculation of a payment in the form of a bounty paid on the basis of some performance metric market or portions thereof can track the performance metric e.g. network traffic conversion impression click through a product or service activation registration upgrade or renewal an activation based on first search a purchase and sale flat fee similar to a royalty etc. associated with determining calculation of a payment under the payment method. In addition for the calculation of a payment in the form of a revenue share conversion information as described below can be supplied to market for example e.g. by an ISV in response to a query or otherwise etc. and the market portions thereof or associated systems can facilitate calculation of a payment under the payment method as further described herein.

It can be understood that any number of other payment methods can be accommodated by the marketplace such as market . That is methods of payment are limited only by the willingness of the ISV and the OEM to agree to the terms subject to any commission that can be required to be paid to the owner or operator of the marketplace such as market for facilitating the transaction. It should be further noted that many of the aforementioned payment methods may have been heretofore unavailable in the context of contracting for placement of software or services on an OEM device as a direct implication of the inability to track performance of the contract e.g. tracking after placement or otherwise etc. .

In addition it can be further understood that any number of marketplace compensation models can be implemented as well. As a result while particular non limiting embodiments can be described herein as supporting particular payment or compensation methods it should be appreciated that the disclosed subject matter is not so limited. For instance as described below in various embodiments an owner or operator of the marketplace such as market or portions thereof can accept compensation directly from one or more ISV s one or more OEM s or combinations thereof and based on any payment terms e.g. payment methods percentages amounts prices contingencies etc. acceptable to the parties to the transaction. As a further non limiting example an owner or operator of the marketplace such as market can also act as a payment agent for payments from the one or more ISV s to the one or more OEM s . In such an exemplary embodiment the payment agent and or owner or operator of the marketplace such as market can invoice one or more of the ISV and OEM on a periodic basis e.g. a quarterly basis or other periodic basis etc. based on conversion information accept payment from the one or more ISV s for distribution between and among the one or more OEM s e.g. the share of the payment from the one or more ISV s that inures to the benefit of the one or more OEM s under their respective contracts etc. and the owner or operator of the marketplace such as market e.g. the share of the payment from the one or more ISV s that inures to the benefit of the owner or operator of the marketplace such as market under its respective compensation contracts etc. .

It is noted that while depicts market OEM s and an ISV s as functional blocks and can be discussed below in the context of market OEM s and an ISV s performing certain actions or functions it can be understood that as described herein any of such functions or action can be performed by one or more appropriately configured computing device s associated with operated by or operated on behalf of market OEM s and ISV s . Accordingly for the purposes of illustration and not limitation market OEM and or ISV can be thought of as one or more appropriately configured computing device s associated with operated by or operated on behalf of market OEM and ISV respectively as described herein regarding etc. for example. In addition while particular blocks or paths represented by arrows are depicted in for illustrative purposes and not limitation as existing within the realm of market ISV or OEM the disclosed subject matter is not so limited. For instance as further described below one or more of the blocks or data functions actions or other thing represented by the blocks as the context indicates can be located elsewhere in depending on for example particular configuration of an exemplary marketplace such as market etc. In various non limiting implementations the ability to track contract performance is provided as part of the marketplace such as market that enables marketplace participants e.g. ISVs OEMs device redistributors etc. to accurately track the contract performance and profitability e.g. results from preloads for OEMs and ISVs determine payments optimize conversion performance and profitability etc. .

Accordingly in various non limiting implementations the disclosed subject matter facilitates placement of and the subsequent tracking of the placement of software or services or links or references thereto etc. . depicts an exemplary non limiting embodiment of a marketplace such as market facilitating the placement of and the subsequent tracking of the placement of a software application e.g. such as a trial version a reduced functionality version an inactive version or other version requiring conversion upgrade purchase and so on etc. or online service from ISV on an OEM device . For instance market can make code or instructions e.g. Code or Instr s available for inclusion in App. Service Reference . In further non limiting implementations market can facilitate aggregating a plurality of code or instructions e.g. Code or Instr s available for inclusion in App. Service Reference e.g. from one or more ISVs aggregating a plurality of Apps. Services References e.g. from one or more ISVs and or aggregating a plurality of code or instructions e.g. Code or Instr s associated with a plurality of Apps. Services References e.g. from one or more ISVs available from disparate ISVs for inclusion in a device device image and or software installation subroutine intended for OEM device . As a non limiting example an OEM can employ market to select a plurality of software applications or services or links or references thereto etc. from one or more disparate ISVs for placement on OEM device or market can receive such selections and in response to receiving such selections market can aggregate a plurality of code or instructions e.g. Code or Instr s associated with a plurality of Apps. Services References e.g. from one or more ISVs aggregate a plurality of Apps. Services References e.g. from one or more ISVs and so on and make such code or instructions and or Apps. Services References available to OEM e.g. in the form of a pre packaged installer a linked list or other data structure suitable for creating a device image for OEM device or otherwise installing such code or instructions on OEM device etc. . As a further non limiting example OEM can employ market to select a trial version of an anti virus application from a first ISV predetermined to be shown on a desktop of OEM device and to select a link to an online movie service by a second disparate ISV to be shown in the start menu on OEM device . Market can receive such selections and in response to receiving such selections market can on behalf of OEM aggregate a plurality of code or instructions e.g. Code or Instr s associated with a plurality of the Apps. Services References e.g. from one or more ISVs aggregate a plurality of the Apps. Services References e.g. from one or more ISVs associated with the trial version of the anti virus application and the online movie service and so on and can make such code or instructions available to OEM .

In addition as described above upon contract formation e.g. a contract formed between ISV and OEM for the placement of a software application or service or a link or a reference thereto etc. e.g. App. Service Reference as modified by including or incorporating Code or Instr s in the marketplace such as market contract information e.g. Contract Info. associated with the contract formed can be generated or created and stored in market to facilitate subsequent contract tracking. For instance contract information e.g. Contract Info. associated with the contract formed can include one or more of a unique contract identification number a reference to a contract tracking component e.g. Tracking Component a trackable attribute of the contract formed e.g. as further described below etc. a specific contract term for the contract formed e.g. payment method payment amount etc. or an ISV reference e.g. a URL to an ISV webpage or other online resource operated by or on behalf of the ISV that allows a conversion e.g. software application to be purchased upgraded activated or a service to be subscribed renewed etc. etc. such as a reference to ISV Commerce Platform that facilitates providing enhanced access e.g. greater functionality after conversion to the software application or the service or a link or a reference thereto etc. and other contract related information. Thus in addition to making code or instructions e.g. Code or Instr s available for inclusion in App. Service Reference facilitating aggregation of a plurality of code or instructions e.g. Code or Instr s facilitating aggregation of a plurality of Apps. Services References e.g. from one or more ISVs and so on market can facilitate providing contract information e.g. Contract Info. to OEM to facilitate subsequent contract tracking e.g. associating Contract Info. with Code or Instr s aggregated Code or Instr s and so on etc. on OEM device to facilitate subsequent contract tracking. For instance contract information e.g. Contract Info. can be associated with code or instructions e.g. Code or Instr s an aggregated plurality of code or instructions e.g. Code or Instr s an aggregated plurality of Apps. Services References e.g. from one or more ISVs and so on for and or by OEM e.g. included in a pre packaged installer a linked list or other data structure created by market or otherwise suitable for creating a device image for OEM device or otherwise installing such code or instructions on OEM device such as OEM device image creation etc. .

It should be noted that for various non limiting embodiments any of the contract information can be stored in the Contract Database associated with market for example according to the unique contract identification number along with other contract information e.g. any trackable attribute s of the contract formed any ISV references such as to Commerce Platform any contract term s specific or otherwise for the contract formed OEM device information OEM and ISV information payment methods and terms metrics to be determined etc. and other related information e.g. additional tracking information as further described below etc. to facilitate various aspects of the disclosed subject matter.

It is further noted that as can be understood by review of the disclosed subject matter a trackable attribute of the contract formed can include any of a number of attributes of interest to an ISV or an OEM as part of tracking the performance of the contract formed in the marketplace such as market . For instance as non limiting examples trackable attributes of the contract formed can include a specific contract term for the contract formed e.g. payment method payment amount etc. desired terms e.g. product description price device location specific placement or entry point preferences references thereto and unique trackable location or entry point identification numbers associated therewith e.g. for taskbar desktop start menu browser favorite general pop up context specific pop up and the like etc. location preferences references thereto and unique trackable location or entry point identification numbers associated therewith or number of placements desired conversion terms other contract terms etc. device type category of software or service and so on etc. Thus if an attribute concerning the contract formed would be of interest in tracking the performance thereof then the attribute can be a trackable attribute of the contract formed.

According to various non limiting embodiments Code or Instr s can for example be adapted to provide a reference to a contract tracking component e.g. a URL to a market webpage or other online resource operated by or on behalf of market that comprises a Tracking Component as further described herein etc. . The Code or Instr s can be further adapted to direct the OEM device to employ a subset of the contract information e.g. such as the unique contract identification number etc. upon invoking starting accessing or otherwise executing the software application e.g. for a first instance or any subsequent instance for which it is desired to present a conversion opportunity etc. or accessing the service or a link or a reference thereto etc. e.g. following a URL to an ISV webpage or other online resource operated by or on behalf of ISV that that presents a service conversion opportunity as further described herein etc. .

Thus in various exemplary implementations of a marketplace such as market of code or instructions e.g. Code or Instr s can be made available for incorporation or inclusion in App. Service Reference . For example code or instructions e.g. Code or Instr s can comprise a Code Snippet that can be added by ISV to its client side application or reference to an online service e.g. App. Service Reference . In the alternative ISV can provide the application to the market and market can facilitate including code or instructions e.g. Code or Instr s into the application or reference to an online service e.g. App. Service Reference . In either event the resulting App. Ref. can be stored on OEM device either with or without participation of the marketplace such market . In addition as further described above the code or instructions e.g. Code or Instr s such as the Code Snippet can be adapted to direct the OEM device to employ a subset of the contract information e.g. such as by locating the unique contract identification number and or other contract information stored on the OEM device in a file in the application s or service s working folder etc. upon invoking starting accessing or otherwise executing the software application or accessing the reference to the online service.

As a further example ISV can add a method for its application e.g. App. Service Reference in the form of a C C Sharp application where the method can take the form and where the CodeSnippet.cs can be adapted to direct the OEM device to employ a subset of the contract information stored on the OEM device in an exemplary file as described. It is noted that the file extension .cs is intended to relate that the file is a source code file used for example by Microsoft Visual C C Sharp and C .NET development software.

As a further described above Code or Instr s can be further adapted to direct the OEM device to employ a subset of the contract information e.g. such as by locating the unique contract identification number and or other contract information stored on the OEM device in an exemplary file in the application s or service s working folder etc. upon invoking starting accessing or otherwise executing the software application or accessing the reference to the online service. For instance as can be seen in contract information e.g. Contract Info. can be created or generated in response to a contract formed between ISV and OEM . In addition contract information e.g. Contract Info. can be stored in an exemplary file such as in a memory in OEM device as further described below. As further described above a subset of the contract information e.g. the unique contract identification number and or other contract information stored on the OEM device such as a reference to a contract tracking component e.g. Tracking Component etc. can be stored in the file in the application s or service s working folder for example.

As a further non limiting example file can comprise a string of the form ref http www.market.com XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX 1 

where the string XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX can represent the unique contract identification number for the contract of interest involving OEM device and the remainder string ref http www.market.com . . . . comprises a URL stub that can represent a reference to a contract tracking component e.g. Tracking Component associated with market . It can be understood that while the above strings are depicted in plain text the disclosed subject matter is not so limited. For instance cypher text coded text or otherwise secured information could be used similarly with appropriate complementary functionality or calls added e.g. added in Code or Instr s calling existing functionality etc. to decipher or otherwise decode the strings. Accordingly in various non limiting implementations upon invoking starting accessing or otherwise executing the software application or accessing the reference to the online service such as App. Ref. e.g. App. Service Reference as modified by including or incorporating Code or Instr s etc. OEM device can be directed to employ a subset of the contract information e.g. such as by locating the unique contract identification number and or other contract information stored on the OEM device in file for example in the application s or service s working folder etc. . As a result the OEM device employing a subset of the contract information in exemplary file can facilitate redirecting the request on the OEM device e.g. the invoking starting accessing or otherwise executing the software application or accessing the reference to the online service etc. to a contract tracking component e.g. Tracking Component etc. .

In a further aspect of exemplary non limiting implementations the contract tracking component e.g. Tracking Component etc. can forward the request based on an ISV reference e.g. a URL to an ISV webpage or other online resource operated by or on behalf of the ISV that allows a conversion e.g. software application to be purchased upgraded activated or a service to be subscribed renewed etc. that facilitates providing enhanced access e.g. greater functionality after conversion to the software application or the service or a link or a reference thereto etc. e.g. ISV reference to ISV Commerce Platform etc. . For instance when URL request is received from OEM device e.g. having the requisite form such as in file etc. a contract tracking component e.g. Tracking Component etc. can employ a subset of the contract information e.g. such as the unique contract identification number appended in the URL request etc. to determine deal specific information e.g. OEM ISV ISV reference to ISV Commerce Platform etc. .

As a result of the determination contract tracking component e.g. Tracking Component etc. can automatically forward the URL request e.g. with or without any additional tracking information determined by for example reference to Contract Database for the unique contract identification number etc. to the ISV reference e.g. ISV reference to ISV Commerce Platform an ISV Buy Upgrade Web Page as defined in an associated marketplace listing as stored in Contract Database etc. . For instance it can be understood that various ISV s can employ one or more of a multitude of possible e commerce solutions each of which can have particular requirements e.g. query syntax allowed methods authentication access and authorization protocols communications protocols etc. . Furthermore for small and mid level ISV s it can be further understood that such e commerce solutions can be contracted out to one or more of a myriad of e commerce providers. In any event it can be expected that for a particular ISV requests or queries made to ISV Commerce Platform would be required to meet the particular requirements as described above as well as comprise information associated proper authentication access and authorization if required.

As a result contract tracking component e.g. Tracking Component etc. can further determine any additional tracking information by for example reference to Contract Database for the unique contract identification number to be transmitted to the ISV to facilitate automatically forwarding the URL request. Accordingly various non limiting embodiments can be adapted to append any additional tracking information to the forwarded request to facilitate configuring the request per the web page or e commerce platform tracking requirements e.g. web page or tracking requirements of ISV Commerce Platform etc. . In other non limiting implementations the request to be forwarded can further account for additional tracking information as determined by the contract tracking component e.g. Tracking Component etc. by for example reference to Contract Database . For instance additional tracking information can include information e.g. account numbers contract information settings preferences amplifying information etc. retrieved from the Contract Database relevant to the request to be forwarded. As a further example an exemplary request to be forwarded can comprise a string of the form http www.example.com offer Mpc AF APA FMTG EN USD CTL 00000 00000 2 

where the string offer Mpc AF APA FMTG EN USD CTL 00000 00000 can represent additional tracking information to be used for the contract of interest involving OEM device and ISV and comprising information adapted to configure the request per ISV web page or e commerce platform tracking requirements and the remainder string http www.example.com comprises a URL stub that can represent an ISV reference to ISV Commerce Platform .

Accordingly in the event that a conversion e.g. conversion upgrade click through site visit software or service purchase subscription completion renewal etc. takes place as a result of the request automatically forwarded by the contract tracking component e.g. Tracking Component etc. various embodiments of the marketplace such as market can track the conversion e.g. either in real time or periodically for batch processing etc. such as by querying the ISV Commerce Platform or otherwise. As a result and as a result of tracking the placement and conversion on the basis of a subset of contract information e.g. the unique contract identification number etc. deal level performance metrics can be easily determined as described above for one or more of the ISV or the OEM . In addition the marketplace such as market can further combine individual contract information for a particular ISV or a particular OEM to report the aggregate private data respectively e.g. metrics such as data regarding specific placements performance measurements traffic quality regarding visitor usage and other conversion information and so on etc. or on a more global basis as described above after removing identifying information for example to facilitate conducting market research e.g. regarding global software and online service usage etc. . Thus in various non limiting embodiments the disclosed subject matter can provide the ability to optimize revenues from an analysis of customer usage and transaction data. For instance as described above the platform can generate insights from the analysis of customer usage trends market share visits page views demographics etc. and aggregated transaction data e.g. price conversions placement location or entry point device type etc. to help OEMs and ISVs more effectively target placements and optimize revenues.

Accordingly in view of the exemplary embodiments described supra methods that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flowcharts of . While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methods are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Where non sequential or branched flow is illustrated via flowchart it can be understood that various other branches flow paths and orders of the blocks can be implemented which achieve the same or a similar result. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methods described hereinafter.

In a further non limiting example in response to forming a contract between an ISV and an OEM for one or more of the placement or conversion of a software application or a service or a link or a reference thereto etc. on the OEM device contract information can be created or generated at . For instance creating or generating contract information can include creating or generating Contract Info. associated with forming the contract which can be stored in market e.g. in Contract Database to facilitate subsequent contract tracking. In a further example as described above contract information created or generated in response to or associated with forming the contract can include one or more of a unique or trackable contract identification number a reference to a contract tracking component e.g. Tracking Component a trackable attribute of the contract e.g. as further described above etc. a specific contract term for the contract or an ISV reference e.g. such as an ISV reference to ISV Commerce Platform etc. that facilitates providing enhanced access to the software application or the service or a link or a reference thereto etc. .

As further described above in reference to methods can further include storing at a subset of the contract information e.g. up to and including the contract information or more etc. the software application or the service or a link or a reference thereto etc. on the OEM device . For instance OEM device can comprise a memory or storage component as further described herein that can store information e.g. data instruction s etc. . As a further example as described above in addition to making code or instructions e.g. Code or Instr s available for inclusion in App. Service Reference facilitating aggregation of a plurality of code or instructions e.g. Code or Instr s facilitating aggregation of a plurality of Apps. Services References e.g. from one or more ISVs and so on market can facilitate providing contract information e.g. Contract Info. to OEM to facilitate subsequent contract tracking e.g. associating Contract Info. with Code or Instr s aggregated Code or Instr s and so on etc. on OEM device to facilitate subsequent contract tracking. In addition based on the contract information or a subset thereof for example methods can further comprise tracking second information e.g. conversion information etc. related to one or more of the placement or the conversion e.g. placement or the conversion of the software application or the service or a link or a reference thereto etc. the software application or the service or a link or a reference thereto etc. or the OEM device . For example tracking second information e.g. conversion information etc. can include tracking whether a conversion occurs for a specific placement whether an event at an OEM device e.g. the invoking starting accessing or otherwise executing the software application or accessing the reference to the online service etc. caused a request to a contract tracking component e.g. Tracking Component etc. of market such as a click through other metrics e.g. such as data regarding specific placements performance measurements traffic quality regarding visitor usage and other conversion information and so on etc. . As further described above various embodiments of the marketplace such as market can track conversions e.g. either in real time or otherwise such as periodically for batch processing etc. and associated conversion information such as by querying the ISV Commerce Platform or otherwise. Thus in yet other non limiting examples methods can include receiving a subset of the second information e.g. up to and including the second information such as the conversion information or more etc. as described above from ISV e.g. in market etc. or sharing the subset of the second information with the OEM for example such as by combining individual contract information for a particular ISV or a particular OEM to report the aggregate private data respectively e.g. reported as metrics such as data regarding specific placements performance measurements traffic quality regarding visitor usage and other conversion information and the like or otherwise etc. .

In further non limiting methods the methods can include incorporating instructions e.g. Code or Instr s into the software application or the service or a link or a reference thereto etc. e.g. modifying App. Service Reference by including or incorporating Code or Instr s etc. . For example the instructions can be adapted to direct the OEM device to employ the subset of the contract information e.g. up to and including the contract information or more such as the trackable unique contract identification number etc. upon invoking the software application or accessing the service or a link or a reference thereto etc. . For instance upon invoking starting accessing or otherwise executing the software application e.g. for a first instance or any subsequent instance for which it is desired to present a conversion opportunity etc. or a link or a reference thereto etc. or accessing the service or a link or a reference thereto etc. such as for example following a URL to an ISV webpage or other online resource operated by or on behalf of ISV that that presents a conversion opportunity such as ISV reference to ISV Commerce Platform etc. the OEM device can be directed to employ the subset of the contract information e.g. up to and including the contract information or more etc. for instance in directing a URL request to the contract tracking component e.g. Tracking Component etc. of market . Thus methods can further include receiving the subset of the contract information e.g. up to and including the contract information or more etc. from the OEM device in response to the invoking the software application or accessing the service or a link or a reference thereto etc. .

In a further example methods can include incorporating instructions e.g. Code or Instr s into the software application or the service or a link or a reference thereto etc. e.g. modifying App. Service Reference by including or incorporating Code or Instr s etc. etc. by sending instructions e.g. Code or Instr s to the ISV to incorporate the instructions into the software application or the service or a link or reference thereto etc. . In other exemplary implementations the software application or the service or a link or reference thereto etc. can be sent to the market for incorporating instructions e.g. Code or Instr s into the software application or the service or a link or a reference thereto etc. e.g. modifying App. Service Reference by including or incorporating Code or Instr s etc. etc. .

In yet another non limiting implementation of methods additional tracking information can be determined that is to be transmitted to the ISV . For instance as described above in reference to contract tracking component e.g. Tracking Component etc. can further determine any additional tracking information by for example reference to Contract Database for the trackable or unique contract identification number to be transmitted to the ISV such as for example to facilitate automatically forwarding the URL request. As a further example additional tracking information can comprising information adapted to configure a request per ISV web page or e commerce platform tracking requirements e.g. web page or tracking requirements of ISV Commerce Platform etc. .

In still other non limiting implementations of methods a payment can be determined e.g. determined by one or more of market ISV OEM or automated systems acting on behalf of ISV of OEM or portions thereof etc. based on the placement the conversion the invoking or the accessing as described herein. For instance as further described above the payment can be determined as a first payment payable to the OEM a second payment payable for use the contract tracking component e.g. Tracking Component etc. of market and or the user interface and or a third payment payable from the ISV or any combination thereof. Thus exemplary methods can include receiving the payment including receiving the first second or third payment or any combination thereof. For example as described above an owner or operator of the marketplace such as market can also act as a payment agent for payments from the one or more ISV s to the one or more OEM s . In such an exemplary embodiment the payment agent and or owner or operator of the marketplace such as market can accept or receive payment from the one or more ISV s for distribution between and among the one or more OEM s e.g. the share of the payment from the one or more ISV s that inures to the benefit of the one or more OEM s under their respective contracts etc. and the owner or operator of the marketplace such as market e.g. the share of the payment from the one or more ISV s that inures to the benefit of the owner or operator of the marketplace such as market under its respective compensation contracts etc. . As further described above any number and combination of payment methods can be employed subject to the approval of the owner or operator of the marketplace such as market .

In further non limiting implementations of methods at information e.g. first information can be presented e.g. via a user interface such as a graphical user interface or otherwise a database exposed to manual or automated queries or combinations thereof of one or more computing device s and so on etc. regarding one or more ISV software application s or service s e.g. a plurality of App. Ref. for disparate ISVs etc. one or more OEM EV device s e.g. OEM devices of disparate OEMs etc. or one or more market analytic s as described herein for the one or more ISV software application s or service s or the one or more OEM devices. In addition in response to forming a contract between one or more ISVs and an EV e.g. OEM for one or more of the placement or conversion of software applications or services or links or a references thereto etc. on the OEM device contract information can be created or generated at . As a non limiting example an EV e.g. OEM can via market indicate the intention to contract with multiple disparate ISVs regarding multiple ISV software application s or service s . In that regard contract information can be generated having portions of information related to one or more of the disparate ISVs the one or more ISV software application s or service s and so on or any combination sufficient to facilitate contract tracking.

In addition instructions can be incorporated into or associated with a subset of the one or more software applications or services or links or a references thereto etc. . For example such instructions can be adapted to direct the OEM device to employ a subset of the contract information upon invoking or accessing one or more of the ISV software application s or service s . Thus as further described above in addition to making code or instructions e.g. Code or Instr s available for inclusion in App. Service Reference facilitating aggregation of a plurality of code or instructions e.g. Code or Instr s facilitating aggregation of a plurality of Apps. Services References e.g. from one or more ISVs and so on market can facilitate providing contract information e.g. Contract Info. to OEM to facilitate subsequent contract tracking e.g. associating Contract Info. with Code or Instr s aggregated Code or Instr s and so on etc. on OEM device to facilitate subsequent contract tracking. Accordingly an EV OEM can employ market to select any number of ISV software application s or service s and market can aggregate the selected ISV software application s or service s can incorporate or associate appropriate instructions or aggregated instructions and can make such software application s service s and or instructions available to the EV OEM e.g. OEM for placement on OEM device .

In further exemplary implementations of methods a conversion opportunity can be presented at to a user of device e.g. OEM device etc. based in part on contract information being employed in executing or downloading the software application or accessing the online service e.g. either directly on the device or via a link or a reference thereto etc. e.g. App. Ref. etc. . For instance depending on a number of factors related to the contract formation such as for example device location specific placement or entry point preferences e.g. taskbar desktop start menu browser favorite general pop up context specific pop up etc. number of placements desired conversion terms other contract terms device type category of software or service and so on etc. the user of the device can be presented with one or more opportunities to convert the software application or a link or a reference thereto etc. or the online service or a link or a reference thereto etc. e.g. App. Ref. etc. into an upgraded an activated or otherwise converted software application or an activated a renewed a subscribed or otherwise converted online service. As a further non limiting example presenting a conversion opportunity can include providing access to a trial version of a software application e.g. App. Ref. etc. or a link or a reference thereto etc. where the placement of the trial version is on a desktop of the device or other device location for example. The conversion opportunity exists by for example the ability of the device e.g. OEM device so equipped to upon invoking starting accessing or otherwise executing the software application or a link or a reference thereto etc. e.g. for a first instance or any subsequent instance for which it is desired to present a conversion opportunity etc. or upon accessing the online service or a link or a reference thereto etc. as the case may be to direct a request to the market e.g. to the contract tracking component such as Tracking Component etc. for conversion of the placement of the trial version based on contract information located on the device e.g. OEM device as described above.

In still other exemplary methods conversion information related to the software application or the online service or a link or a reference thereto etc. on the device e.g. OEM device can be transmitted at in response to receiving a request to track performance of one or more term s of the contract e.g. a request or query to track such as from a contract tracking component adapted to track the contract and one or more term s thereof e.g. Tracking Component etc. as describe above regarding for example. In other exemplary implementations methods at can include determining e.g. such as determining with a processor associated with ISV or an associated computing system as described below for example regarding etc. a conversion payment e.g. a payment according to an agreed payment method for example as a result of a conversion that was an object of the contract to place the software application or the online service or a link or a reference thereto etc. on the device to be tendered based on the one or more term s of the contract and a subset of the conversion information e.g. up to and including the conversion information or more such as a retail price paid for a revenue sharing payment method a number of units for a flat fee or performance based bounty payment method etc. . The methods can further include tendering the conversion payment according to a payment term e.g. payment methods percentages amounts prices contingencies etc. of the contract at such as tendering the conversion payment to an operator of the contract tracking component e.g. Tracking Component based on an agreement for use of the contract tracking component for example.

In another non limiting example at methods can include transmitting a subset of the contract information e.g. up to and including the contract information or more such as a unique contract identification number for the contract generated by the contract tracking component e.g. Tracking Component etc. and or other contract information stored on the OEM device such as a reference to the contract tracking component etc. to a contract tracking component e.g. Tracking Component etc. adapted to track performance under the contract in response to an invocation or download of the software application or a link or a reference thereto etc. or a request to access the service or a link or a reference thereto etc. e.g. invocation starting requesting access or otherwise execution of the software application or requesting access to the reference to the online service such as App. Ref. e.g. App. Service Reference as modified by including or incorporating Code or Instr s etc. .

As a further non limiting example methods can include receiving conversion information e.g. or a subset thereof such as a retail price paid for a revenue sharing payment method a number of units for a flat fee or performance based bounty payment method an activation code a password a confirmation code etc. in response to the device e.g. OEM device etc. being granted enhanced access to the software application or the service or a link or a reference thereto etc. e.g. App. Ref. etc. for instance based on a purchase of the enhanced access or other event to obtain the enhanced access at . In addition at methods can further include sharing a payment with an operator of the contract tracking component e.g. Tracking Component etc. based on the contract the purchase or other event and a predetermined payment term e.g. payment methods percentages amounts prices contingencies etc. such as can be negotiated with an owner or an operator of the contract tracking component or an agent thereof and so on etc. associated with the operator of the contract tracking component.

In view of the methods described supra systems and devices that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the functional block diagrams of . While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the functional block diagrams are shown and described as various assemblages of functional component blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that such illustrations or corresponding descriptions are not limited by such functional block diagrams as some implementations may occur in different configurations. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the systems and devices described hereinafter.

Accordingly computing environment can comprise a number of components to facilitate contracting for placement or conversion of a software application or a service or a link or a reference thereto etc. on an OEM device e.g. OEM device etc. distributing software or promoting online services device customization and or pre installing software applications or services or links or references thereto etc. on the OEM device according to various aspects of the disclosed subject matter among other related functions. While various embodiments are described with respect to the components of computing environment and the further embodiments more fully described below one having ordinary skill in the art would recognize that various modifications could be made without departing from the spirit of the disclosed subject matter. Thus it can be understood that the description herein is but one of many embodiments that may be possible while keeping within the scope of the claims appended hereto.

Additionally while device is shown as a generic network capable device which can include such devices as OEM device device is intended to refer to a class of network capable devices that can one or more of receive transmit store etc. information incident to and that user ISV market and or OEM can employ to facilitate various techniques of the disclosed subject matter. Note that OEM device is depicted distinctly from that of device or any of the variety of devices e.g. device devices etc. and that OEM device is depicted as associated with OEM to distinguish OEM device from device on the basis that OEM device has not yet been released from the OEM to end user . Thus OEM device as one of a plurality of OEM devices associated with an OEM a device redistributor etc. can be an intended target of the various non limiting aspects of the disclosed subject matter e.g. device customization distributing software or promoting online services contracting for placement or conversion of a software application or a service or a link or a reference thereto etc. and pre installing software applications or services or links or references thereto etc. on OEM devices etc. . However the discussion of the foregoing distinction is intended for illustration and not limitation. As such the foregoing does not preclude implementing various aspects of the disclosed subject matter on a device such as device e.g. already released by an OEM to a user etc. in the process of device customization as a non limiting example by an information technology IT service provider.

While for purposes of illustration user is described as performing certain actions it is to be understood that device and or OEM device e.g. via an operating system application software device drivers communications stacks etc. can perform such actions on behalf of user . Similarly for ISVs and OEMs which can be discussed or described as performing certain actions it is to be understood that computing systems or devices associated with ISVs and OEMs respectively e.g. via an operating system application software device drivers communications stacks etc. can perform such actions on behalf of ISVs and OEMs .

Accordingly exemplary device and or OEM device can include without limitation a cellular phone connected to the network via access component or otherwise a laptop computer a tablet personal computer PC device and or a personal digital assistant PDA or other mobile device and so on. As further examples device can include such devices as a network capable camera and other such devices not shown as a pen computing device portable digital music player home entertainment devices network capable devices appliances kiosks and sensors and so on. It is to be understood that device and or OEM device can comprise more or less functionality than those exemplary devices described above as the context requires and as further described below in connection with .

According to various embodiments of the disclosed subject matter the device and or OEM device can connect to other user devices to facilitate accomplishing various functions as further described herein. In addition device and or OEM device can connect via one or more communications network s to a wired network e.g. directly via the internet or otherwise .

Wired network as well as communications network can comprise any number of computers servers intermediate network devices and the like to facilitate various functions as further described herein. As a non limiting example wired network can include an ISV system e.g. one or more appropriately configured computing device s associated with operated by or operated on behalf of ISV etc. as described above that facilitates providing access for a device e.g. OEM device etc. to a software application or an online service or a link or a reference thereto etc. e.g. App. Ref. etc. wherein the software application or the online service or a link or a reference thereto etc. refers to contract information stored in a memory of the device e.g. OEM device to facilitate providing access and wherein the contract information can be based on information associated with a contract to place the software application or the online service or a link or a reference thereto etc. e.g. App. Ref. etc. on the device e.g. OEM device .

In further non limiting implementations ISV system can facilitate presenting a conversion opportunity by the device e.g. by an OEM device such as to a user of the device etc. based in part on contract information being employed in executing or downloading the software application or accessing the online service e.g. directly on the device or via a link or a reference thereto etc. e.g. App. Ref. etc. . As an example depending on a number of factors related to the contract formation such as device location specific placement or entry point preferences as described above number of placements desired conversion terms other contract terms device type category of software or service and so on etc. ISV system can facilitate presenting the user of the device with one or more opportunities to convert the software application or a link or a reference thereto etc. or the online service or a link or a reference thereto etc. e.g. App. Ref. etc. into an upgraded an activated or otherwise converted software application or an activated a renewed a subscribed or otherwise converted online service. As a further non limiting example ISV system can facilitate presenting a conversion opportunity by providing access to a trial version of a software application e.g. App. Ref. etc. or a link or a reference thereto etc. for placement of the trial version on a desktop of the device or other device location for example. It can be understood that the conversion opportunity exists by for example the ability of the device e.g. OEM device so equipped to direct a request to the market e.g. to the contract tracking component such as Tracking Component etc. for conversion of the placement of the trial version based on contract information located on the device e.g. OEM device as described above.

In still other non limiting implementations ISV system can facilitate transmitting conversion information related to the software application or the online service or a link or a reference thereto etc. on the device e.g. OEM device in response to receiving a request to track performance of one or more term s of the contract e.g. a request or query to track such as from a contract tracking component adapted to track the contract and one or more term s thereof e.g. Tracking Component etc. as describe above regarding . In addition ISV system can further facilitate determining e.g. such as determining with a processor associated with ISV or ISV system as described below for example regarding etc. a conversion payment e.g. a payment according to an agreed payment method for example as a result of a conversion that was an object of the contract to place the software application or the online service or a link or a reference thereto etc. on the device to be tendered based on the one or more term s of the contract and a subset of the conversion information e.g. up to and including the conversion information or more such as a retail price paid for a revenue sharing payment method a number of units for a flat fee or performance based bounty payment method etc. and tendering the conversion payment according to a payment term e.g. payment methods percentages amounts prices contingencies etc. of the contract such as by tendering the conversion payment to an operator of the contract tracking component e.g. Tracking Component based on an agreement for use of the contract tracking component for example.

ISV system can further include any number of intermediaries acting on behalf of one or more ISV s to facilitate various functions as further described herein. In a further non limiting example an intermediary acting on behalf one or more ISV s could store and provide access to information including conversion information as available via ISV Commerce Platform which as described above could be provided by any of a number of e commerce solution providers. Moreover ISV system can be further configured to perform any number of additional functions incident to distributing software or promoting online services as described above for example regarding .

As a further non limiting example wired network can also include a marketplace system e.g. one or more appropriately configured computing device s associated with operated by or operated on behalf of market etc. and an OEM system e.g. one or more appropriately configured computing device s associated with operated by or operated on behalf of OEM etc. as described above. Accordingly marketplace system can facilitate contracting for placement or conversion of a software application or a service or a link or a reference thereto etc. e.g. App. Ref. etc. on an OEM device e.g. OEM device etc. such as by facilitating the presentation of information e.g. first information e.g. via a user interface such as a graphical user interface or otherwise a database exposed to manual or automated queries or combinations thereof of one or more computing device s and so on etc. regarding one or more ISV software application s or service s e.g. a plurality of App. Ref. for disparate ISVs etc. one or more OEM device s e.g. OEM devices of disparate OEMs etc. or one or more market analytic s as described above for the one or more ISV software application s or service s or the one or more OEM devices. As a further non limiting example marketplace system can facilitate presenting information e.g. first information for instance to one or more OEM s and or one or more ISV s regarding the one or more ISV software application s or service s or the one or more OEM device s e.g. OEM devices of disparate OEMs etc. . In yet another further non limiting example marketplace system can facilitate creating or generating contract information in response to forming a contract between an ISV and an OEM for one or more of the placement or conversion of the software application or the service or a link or a reference thereto etc. on the OEM device . As further described above marketplace system can facilitate aggregating a plurality of code or instructions e.g. Code or Instr s available for inclusion in App. Service Reference e.g. from one or more ISVs ISV systems etc. aggregating a plurality of Apps. Services References e.g. from one or more ISVs and or aggregating a plurality of code or instructions e.g. Code or Instr s associated with a plurality of Apps. Services References e.g. from one or more ISVs available from disparate ISVs ISV systems and so on for inclusion in a device device image and or software installation subroutine intended for OEM device . As a non limiting example an OEM system can employ marketplace system to select a plurality of software applications or services or links or references thereto etc. from one or more disparate ISVs ISV systems and so on for placement on OEM device or marketplace system can receive such selections and in response to receiving such selections marketplace system can aggregate a plurality of code or instructions e.g. Code or Instr s associated with a plurality of Apps. Services References e.g. from one or more ISVs aggregate a plurality of Apps. Services References e.g. from one or more ISVs and so on and make such code or instructions available to OEM system e.g. in the form of a pre packaged installer a linked list or other data structure suitable for creating a device image for OEM device or otherwise installing such code or instructions on OEM device etc. .

In addition marketplace system can further facilitate tracking e.g. tracking with a processor etc. as described below second information e.g. conversion information etc. related to one or more of the placement or the conversion e.g. placement or the conversion of the software application or the service or a link or a reference thereto etc. the software application or the service or a link or a reference thereto etc. or the OEM device . Moreover marketplace system can be further configured to perform any number of additional functions incident to contracting for placement or conversion of a software application or a service or a link or a reference thereto etc. e.g. App. Ref. etc. on an OEM device e.g. OEM device etc. as described above for example regarding .

Further regarding in other exemplary implementations of the disclosed subject matter OEM system can facilitate storing e.g. storing on a memory or storage component of a device such as OEM device etc. a software application or a service or a link or a reference thereto etc. e.g. App. Ref. etc. and contract information related to a contract for placing the software application or the service or a link or a reference thereto etc. e.g. App. Ref. etc. on the device e.g. OEM device . In still other exemplary implementations OEM system can facilitate transmitting a subset of the contract information e.g. up to and including the contract information or more such as a unique contract identification number for the contract generated by the contract tracking component e.g. Tracking Component etc. and or other contract information stored on the OEM device such as a reference to the contract tracking component etc. to a contract tracking component e.g. Tracking Component etc. adapted to track performance under the contract in response to an invocation or download of the software application or a link or a reference thereto etc. or a request to access the service or a link or a reference thereto etc. e.g. invocation starting requesting access or otherwise execution of the software application or requesting access to the reference to the online service such as App. Ref. etc. .

In yet other exemplary implementations OEM system can facilitate receiving conversion information e.g. or a subset thereof such as a retail price paid for a revenue sharing payment method a number of units for a flat fee or performance based bounty payment method an activation code a password a confirmation code etc. in response to the device e.g. OEM device etc. being granted enhanced access to the software application or the service or a link or a reference thereto etc. e.g. App. Ref. etc. for instance based on a purchase of the enhanced access at . In addition OEM system can also facilitate sharing a payment with an operator of the contract tracking component e.g. Tracking Component etc. based on the contract the purchase or other event and a predetermined payment term e.g. payment methods percentages amounts prices contingencies etc. such as can be negotiated with an owner or an operator of the contract tracking component or an agent thereof and so on etc. associated with the operator of the contract tracking component. Moreover OEM system can be further configured to perform any number of additional functions incident to device e.g. OEM device customization as described above regarding for example.

In addition wired network or systems or components thereof can facilitate performing ancillary functions to accomplish various techniques described herein. For example marketplace system can provide functions that facilitate authentication and authorization of one or more of ISV OEM OEM device user e.g. employing OEM device etc. presentation of information via a graphical user interface to OEMs ISVs comprising OEM placement opportunities ISV offers to purchase OEM placement opportunities metrics analytics and other information associated with facilitating contracting for placement or conversion software or online services on devices such as OEM devices management of contracts payments and other functions associated with a marketplace such as market etc. as described above. According to various non limiting embodiments of the disclosed subject matter computing environment can further comprise additional network components not shown . For example devices and or components can be relatively simplistic and or lacking certain features to facilitate various techniques of the disclosed subject matter. Accordingly particular aspects of the disclosed subject matter can be facilitated by additional network components not shown in communication with the devices and or other components of computing environment .

For instance marketplace system can be capable of performing a number of functions as described above regarding ISV or ISV system OEM or OEM system and functionality described above regarding market system can likewise be provided by other components or devices of wired network . For example functionality associated with market or marketplace system for providing one or more of metrics analytics and insights can be provided by one or more computing system s not shown that can be considered ancillary to but associated with market or marketplace system . As a further example data collected transmitted and received by contract database can be stored in an associated database system not shown . As a further example many of the analysis and reporting functions associated with one or more of metrics analytics or insights can also be provided by associated systems such as customer relations management platforms and the like. In addition as previously described one or more intermediaries e.g. any of a number of e commerce solution providers etc. acting on behalf one or more ISV s can provide functionality such as described above regarding ISV Commerce Platform . In yet another example while market or marketplace system can be capable performing functions as previously described market or marketplace system could also be functionally limited resulting in an inability to authenticate an OEM device or verify that access is authorized e.g. verifying fulfillment of a specified requirement in embodiments that would employ such techniques. Accordingly computing environment can comprise such further components not shown e.g. authentication authorization and accounting AAA servers e commerce servers database servers application servers etc. in communication with one or more of ISV system marketplace system OEM system and or user to accomplish the desired functions.

It is noted that although App. Ref. is depicted in as comprising App. Service Reference and Code or Instr s e.g. comprising CodeSnippet.cs etc. it can be understood that App. Service Reference as modified by including or incorporating Code or Instr s is intended to denote that App. Ref. can include the functionality of Code or Instr s as applied to the App. Service Reference versus the actual file contents where such inclusion and or incorporation can include appropriate software development processes e.g. compiling linking etc. to impart the functionality of Code or Instr s to App. Service Reference in order to produce App. Ref. . It is further noted that these discussions regarding such including or incorporating with regard to Code or Instr s and App. Service Reference are not limited to the exemplary devices of and as further described above can apply to an App. Ref. comprising an aggregated plurality of code or instructions e.g. Code or Instr s associated with a plurality of Apps. Services References e.g. from one or more ISVs an aggregated plurality of Apps. Services References e.g. from one or more ISVs and so on.

Accordingly in various exemplary implementations the disclosed subject matter provides devices such as described regarding in and as further described herein for example regarding etc. For instance exemplary devices e.g. OEM devices etc. can be adapted to store a software vendor application or a service or a link or a reference thereto etc. such as for example App. Ref. etc. As described herein App. Ref. can further comprise an aggregated plurality of code or instructions e.g. Code or Instr s associated with a plurality of Apps. Services References e.g. from one or more ISVs an aggregated plurality of Apps. Services References e.g. from one or more ISVs and so on. Thus the software vendor application or service or a link or a reference thereto etc. of the exemplary devices can further be configured or adapted to locate contract information stored on the devices such as contract information a subset of which can be stored on OEM devices for example in a file . For instance as described herein the contract information can be associated with a contract between a software vendor e.g. developer proprietor seller etc. of the software vendor application or service or a link or a reference thereto etc. and a provider of the device such as the devices manufacturer or otherwise e.g. OEMs device redistributor EV etc. to place the software vendor application or service or a link or a reference thereto etc. on the devices e.g. OEM devices etc. .

Moreover in exemplary devices as described herein the software vendor application or service or a link or a reference thereto etc. can be further configured or adapted to refer the devices to a tracking component such as a contract tracking component e.g. Tracking Component of a software distribution system or marketplace as described herein regarding etc. such as market marketplace system and the like when the software vendor application or service is invoked e.g. invoking starting accessing or otherwise executing the software vendor application or service or a link or a reference thereto etc. or accessing the service or a link or a reference thereto etc. e.g. for a first instance or any subsequent instance for which it is desired to present a conversion opportunity etc. .

For instance depending on a number of factors related to contract formation such as for example device location specific placement or entry point preferences e.g. taskbar desktop start menu browser favorite general pop up context specific pop up etc. number of placements desired conversion terms other contract terms device type category of software or service and so on etc. user of OEM device can be presented with one or more opportunities to convert the software application or the online service or a link or a reference thereto etc. e.g. App. Ref. etc. e.g. conversion opportunities into an upgraded an activated enhanced or otherwise converted software application or an activated a renewed a subscribed or otherwise converted online service or a link or a reference thereto etc. . Similarly for an App. Ref. that comprises an aggregated plurality of code or instructions e.g. Code or Instr s associated with a plurality of Apps. Services References e.g. from one or more ISVs an aggregated plurality of Apps. Services References e.g. from one or more ISVs and so on user of OEM device can be presented a plurality of opportunities for conversion based on the aggregated plurality of code or instructions e.g. Code or Instr s the aggregated plurality of Apps. Services References etc.

Thus as illustrated in presenting a conversion opportunity can include providing access to a trial version of a software application e.g. App. Ref. etc. or a link or a reference thereto etc. where placement of the trial version is on a desktop of the device for example or other device location. The conversion opportunity exists by for example the ability of the device e.g. OEM device so equipped to upon invoking starting accessing or otherwise executing the software application or a link or a reference thereto etc. e.g. for a first instance or any subsequent instance for which it is desired to present a conversion opportunity etc. or upon accessing the online service or a link or a reference thereto etc. as the case may be to direct a request to the market e.g. to the contract tracking component such as Tracking Component etc. for conversion of the placement of the trial version based on contract information located on the device e.g. in file in OEM device as described above.

As further illustrated in opportunities to convert the software application or the online service once a conversion is undertaken as described above regarding for instance can result in the device unlocking activating or otherwise obtaining e.g. downloading decompressing decrypting etc. an upgraded an activated an enhanced or an otherwise converted software application or an activated a renewed a subscribed or an otherwise converted online service depicted in as Enhanced App. Service . Note further that the device is no longer designated as an OEM device but is denoted as a user device to distinguish the device from OEM devices that have not yet been shipped or personalized by an end user. In addition note that App. Ref. and file can remain on device or can be removed e.g. manually or automatically . However as noted above the discussion of the foregoing distinction is intended for illustration and not limitation. As such the foregoing does not preclude implementing various aspects of the disclosed subject matter on a device such as device e.g. already released by an OEM to a user etc. in the process of device customization as a non limiting example by an IT service provider.

In a further non limiting implementation of the disclosed subject matter that provides the ability to contract for a payment method that takes into account the prospect for successive user conversions upgrades and so on of the same App. Ref. or for one or more related software application s or online service s e.g. in an example of bundling etc. the disclosed subject matter can be adapted to retain one or more of the App. Ref. or the file following a user conversion to facilitate payment to an OEM or other party for successful conversion of bundled placements on an OEM device . Thus as used herein a bundled placement can be a combination of one or more software application s and or online service s successive conversions for software applications or online services or any combination thereof. As a result the disclosed subject matter further can further incentivize finding an optimal match for placement opportunities on a device with regard to a potential user s anticipated demands e.g. rather than merely employing a shotgun approach of filling as many placement opportunities as are available while cluttering the device annoying the end user etc. .

This further highlights another advantage of the disclosed subject matter. For instance the typical case of an OEM contracting with an ISV for placement of software or online services on an OEM device of necessity requires making certain assumptions about software or services and end user preferences. This can ultimately result in compromises that tend toward filling placement opportunities with the applications or online services that are expected to be most popular. However the market efficiencies lowered barriers to entry lower transaction costs market transparency and other benefits such as the ability to automate many of the contract negotiation consummation and performance tracking features afforded by the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter can facilitate involving the end user in the OEMs or device redistributors decisions as to what will be placed on an OEM device .

For instance whereas conventionally an ISV would have to provide a unique build of an application according to each specific contract for placement on a device or class of devices according to aspects of the disclosed subject matter the ISV need only provide one build for a device or class of devices no matter how many deals are later consummated and no matter what contract terms vary across deals e.g. a taskbar location preference versus a desktop location preference versus a pop up location preference payment methods etc. . Thus given these lowered transaction costs for ISVs it is conceivable that some niche application ISV or lower level popularity ISV but having a dedicated following might be willing to pay more for placement or OEM s might be able to fill placement opportunities at lower volumes up to and including device placement customization at the point of sale e.g. filling singular device placement opportunities by a retail device reseller cellular service provider retail storefront internet device sales customization etc. .

As yet another advantage of the various embodiments of the disclosed subject matter it is apparent that OEMs EVs and device redistributors e.g. retail device resellers cellular service providers retail storefronts internet device sellers etc. by aggressively pursuing optimized fulfillment of their available placement opportunities for a given device or class of devices can increase their margins increase their market share by lowering prices and generally develop and exploit a competitive advantage over their cohorts based on taking advantage of these heretofore unavailable market opportunities. Accordingly in further exemplary implementations the disclosed subject matter provides the ability to economically take into account an individual end user s software application and or online service preferences for a device to be shipped or transferred to the end user in the contracting for placement or conversion of a software application or a service or a link or a reference thereto etc. on an OEM device the distributing software or promoting online services OEM device customization the pre installation of software applications or services or links or references thereto etc. on OEM device and so on.

For instance device or system can include a memory that retains instructions for locating contract information stored on the device e.g. where the contract information is associated with a contract between a software vendor of the software vendor application or service or a link or a reference thereto etc. and a provider of the device to place the software vendor application or service or a link or a reference thereto etc. on the device . Additionally memory can retain instructions for referring the device to a tracking component of a software distribution system when the software vendor application or service or a link or a reference thereto etc. is invoked or accessed. In a further exemplary embodiment of device or system memory can retain instructions for transmitting a subset of the contract information e.g. up to and including the contract information or more etc. to the tracking component to facilitate tracking the contract.

In a further example memory can retain instructions for providing a trackable attribute of the contract e.g. device location specific placement or entry point references such as a taskbar reference a desktop reference a browser favorite reference a start menu reference a general pop up reference or a context specific pop up reference and wherein each of the device location specific placement or entry point references is associated with a unique or trackable location or entry point identification number in the subset of the contract information of the contract to the tracking component as part of the subset of the contract information to the tracking component as part of the subset of the contract information. The above example instructions and other suitable instructions as described herein for example regarding etc. can be retained within memory and a processor can be utilized in connection with executing the instructions. Various aspects of non limiting embodiments of device or system can be further understood by reference to for example.

Thus as described above device or system can include host processor e.g. processor etc. that can be associated with a storage component to facilitate storage of data or information e.g. information such as market analytics regarding aggregate market behavior for a plurality of ISV software applications or services references and a plurality of OEM EV devices ISV and or OEM EV account or profile information contract or performance metrics code or instructions e.g. Code or Instr s contract information conversion information additional tracking information queries requests etc. and or instructions for performing functions associated with and or incident to the disclosed subject matter as described herein for example regarding etc. In addition in exemplary non limiting implementations storage component of device or system can be configured to store instructions adapted to direct an OEM EV device to employ a subset of the contract information upon accessing the ISV software application or the service or a link or a reference thereto etc. .

In addition the host processor can be associated with a cryptographic component . In accordance with an aspect of the disclosed subject matter cryptographic component can provide symmetric cryptographic tools and accelerators e.g. Twofish Blowfish AES TDES IDEA CASTS RC4 etc. to facilitate encrypting and or decrypting data. Thus cryptographic component can facilitate securing data being written to stored in and or read from the storage component e.g. ISV and or OEM EV account or profile information contract or performance metrics contract information or portions thereof conversion information additional tracking information queries requests etc. transmitted to or received from a connected network e.g. such as for transmitting user or device associated information to a trusted intermediary etc. and or creating a secure communication channel as part of a secure association of device or system with a user or systems facilitating various aspects of the disclosed subject matter to ensure that protected data can only be accessed by those entities authorized and or authenticated to do so. To the same ends cryptographic component can also provide asymmetric cryptographic accelerators and tools e.g. RSA Digital Signature Standard DSS and the like in addition to accelerators and tools e.g. Secure Hash Algorithm SHA and its variants such as for example SHA 0 SHA 1 SHA 224 SHA 256 SHA 384 SHA 512 and so on .

Device or system can further include an authentication component that can solicit authentication data from a user e.g. ISV OEM EV OEM EV device user etc. or other device e.g. an operating system and or application software on behalf of the user and upon receiving the proper authentication data so solicited can be employed individually and or in conjunction with information acquired and ascertained as a result of biometric modalities employed to facilitate associating a network device with a user e.g. ISV OEM EV OEM EV device user etc. . The authentication data can be in the form of a password e.g. a sequence of humanly cognizable characters a pass phrase e.g. a sequence of alphanumeric characters that can be similar to a typical password but is conventionally of greater length and contains non humanly cognizable characters in addition to humanly cognizable characters a pass code e.g. Personal Identification Number PIN and the like for example.

Additionally and or alternatively public key infrastructure PKI data can also be employed by authentication component . PKI arrangements can provide for trusted third parties to vet and affirm entity identity through the use of public keys that typically can be certificates issued by trusted third parties. Such arrangements can enable entities to be authenticated to each other and to use information in certificates e.g. public keys and private keys session keys Traffic Encryption Keys TEKs cryptographic system specific keys and or other keys to encrypt and decrypt messages communicated between entities.

Accordingly authentication component can implement one or more machine implemented techniques to identify a user e.g. ISV OEM EV OEM EV device user etc. or other device e.g. an operating system and or application software on behalf of the user by the user s unique physical and behavioral characteristics and attributes. Biometric modalities that can be employed can include for example face recognition wherein measurements of key points on an entity s face can provide a unique pattern that can be associated with the entity iris recognition that measures from the outer edge towards the pupil the patterns associated with the colored part of the eye the iris to detect unique features associated with an entity s iris and finger print identification that scans the corrugated ridges of skin that are non continuous and form a pattern that can provide distinguishing features to identify an entity.

Referring again to device or system can also include a presentation output component which can be associated with the host processor and which can facilitate various aspects of the disclosed subject matter. For instance the presentation output component can provide various types of user interfaces to facilitate interaction between a user e.g. ISV OEM EV OEM EV device user etc. and any component coupled to the host processor such as described with reference to for example. In addition to being configured or adapted to be accessed by one or more OEM EV s and or one or more ISV s the presentation component such as presentation output component can be further configured to display one or more ISV software application s or service s or links or references thereto etc. one or more OEM EV device s e.g. OEM EV devices having available placement opportunities etc. one or more market analytic s regarding ISV software applications or services or one or more OEM EV device s and so on as described above presentation output component can provide one or more graphical user interface s GUIs command line interfaces machine accessible interfaces e.g. application programming interfaces APIs such as an e commerce back end interface structured and or customized menus and the like. In yet another exemplary implementation presentation output component can facilitate forming a contract for placement or conversion of an ISV software application or service or links or references thereto etc. on an OEM EV device where the contract is tracked based on contract information including a unique contract identification number created by the tracking component for the contract as described below.

For example a GUI can be rendered that provides a user with a region or means to load import read etc. data and can include a region to present such results. These regions can comprise known text and or graphic regions comprising dialogue boxes static controls drop down menus list boxes pop up menus as edit controls combo boxes radio buttons check boxes push buttons and graphic boxes. In addition utilities to facilitate the presentation such as vertical and or horizontal scroll bars for navigation and toolbar buttons to determine whether a region will be viewable can be employed. For example the user can interact with one or more of the components coupled to and or incorporated into the host processor .

The user can also interact with the regions to select and provide information via various devices such as a mouse a roller ball a keypad a keyboard touchpad touch screen a pen and or voice activation for example. Typically a mechanism such as a push button or the enter key on the keyboard can be employed to facilitate entering information in device . However it is to be understood that the claimed subject matter is not so limited. For example merely highlighting a check box can initiate information conveyance.

In another example a command line interface can be employed. For example the command line interface can prompt e.g. via a text message on a display and an audio tone the user for information via providing a text message. The user can then provide suitable information such as alpha numeric input corresponding to an option provided in the interface prompt or an answer to a question posed in the prompt. It is to be understood that a command line interface can be employed in connection with a GUI and or API. In addition the command line interface can be employed in connection with hardware e.g. video cards of a computer and or displays e.g. black and white EGA or other video display unit of a standalone device such as an LCD display on a network printer with limited graphic support and or low bandwidth communication channels. As a further example device or system can include one or more motion sensor s and associated software components and or voice activation components that can be used by a user to facilitate entering information in device or system .

Referring again to device or system can further comprise a communication or communications component which can be associated with the host processor and which can facilitate various aspects of the disclosed subject matter. For instance the communication or communications component can facilitate transmitting or receiving data that can be written to stored in and or read from the storage component e.g. information such as market analytics regarding aggregate market behavior for a plurality of ISV software applications or services references and a plurality of OEM EV devices ISV and or OEM EV account or profile information contract or performance metrics code or instructions e.g. Code or Instr s contract information conversion information additional tracking information queries requests etc. and the like. As a further example the communication or communications component can facilitate transmitting instructions to be placed into the ISV software application or software or a link or a reference thereto etc. querying the ISV e.g. transmitting a request or a query etc. for conversion information by reference to a subset of the contract information receiving the conversion information related to contract information an ISV software application or a service or a link or a reference thereto etc. or an OEM EV device in response to a query of the ISV for the contract transmitting or receiving information incident to accepting a payment for facilitating the formation of the contract and the like as further as described herein for example regarding etc.

In addition device or system can comprise a tracking component which can be associated with the host processor and which can facilitate various aspects of the disclosed subject matter. For instance the tracking component such as a contract tracking component e.g. Tracking Component for example as described herein for example regarding etc. can be configured or adapted to track a contract for placement or conversion of an ISV software application or service or a link or a reference thereto etc. on an OEM EV device formed via the presentation component e.g. formed based on market analytics such as recommendations and so on formed via presentation output component etc. such as by tracking performance of one or more term s of the contract based on contract information including a contract identification number e.g. a trackable contract identification number a unique contract identification number etc. for the contract created by the tracking component for the contract. In a further example the tracking component can be further configured or adapted to receive for the contract conversion information related to the contract information the ISV software application or a link or a reference thereto etc. or the service or a link or a reference thereto etc. or the OEM EV device for instance in response to a request to or a query of the ISV for the contract.

In still other exemplary implementations of device or system tracking component can be further configured or adapted to track the contract based on contract information including a reference to the contract tracking component e.g. Tracking Component a trackable attribute of the contract a specific contract term of the contract or a network reference to a resource such as an ISV resource e.g. an ISV reference e.g. ISV reference to ISV Commerce Platform etc. configured or adapted to provide enhanced access to the ISV software application or the service or a link or a reference thereto etc. for example as described above regarding etc. For instance as further described herein a trackable attribute of the contract can include without limitation one or more OEM EV device location specific placement or entry point references comprising a taskbar reference a desktop reference a browser favorite reference a start menu reference a general pop up reference or a context specific pop up reference and the like. It is further noted that in various implementations an OEM EV device location specific placement or entry point reference can also be associated with a unique or trackable location or entry point identification number in the contract information for instance as previously described.

In yet another example device or system can comprise an analysis component which can be associated with the host processor and which can facilitate various aspects of the disclosed subject matter. For example the analysis component can be configured or adapted to among other things aggregate and or analyze data and information sources perform one or more analyses determine results of the analyses and or generate reports results or recommendations compose and or respond to requests or queries and so on etc. For instance in further non limiting implementations analysis component can be further configured to provide market analytics that can provide market participants such as OEMs EVs ISVs etc. for example with up to date information regarding global software and or online service usage to facilitate optimizing pre installs to the needs of an intended audience. For instance as further described herein regarding etc. for example analysis component can be adapted to provide one or more market analytic s to facilitate contracting for placement or conversion of a software application or a service or a link or a reference thereto etc. e.g. App. Ref. etc. on an OEM device e.g. OEM device etc. . In an example analysis component can be adapted to provide one or more market analytic s that can be employed to facilitate decision making e.g. decision making via a manual semi automated or fully automated process according to a decision tree a decision matrix heuristics inference artificial intelligence or other decision tool or any combination etc. . In a further non limiting example market analytics can comprise information regarding aggregate market behavior e.g. information regarding placement and or conversion as compared to a factor of interest to market participants etc. for a plurality of ISV software applications or services references and or a plurality of OEM EV devices. As yet another non limiting example described below regarding etc. for example market analytics can comprise information relating to system requirements such as device type e.g. desktop tablet smartphone etc. operating system specification e.g. brand or type and version such as Windows 7 Android 3.0 etc. device hardware or software specification e.g. RAM hard disk Internet browser etc. user or demographic target such as an industry segment e.g. consumer small and medium business SMB enterprise healthcare government financial legal etc. a geographical region of the demographic device location specific placement or entry point preference e.g. taskbar desktop start menu etc. and the like etc. Accordingly one or more market analytic s provided by analysis component can be employed e.g. directly by revealing the one or more market analytic s to OEMs ISVs and so on derivatively for example by making recommendations for contracting for placement or conversion and or any combination of these or other suitable uses of one or more market analytic s etc. to facilitate decision making. As can be understood such market analytics as provided by analysis component can be employed by ISVs and or OEMs in creating modifying revoking and or accepting repudiating and so on of offers for placement and or conversion. Accordingly analysis component can be adapted to be accessed by EVs OEMs e.g. OEMs and or ISVs and be further adapted to create market analytics as described herein e.g. comprising information regarding aggregate market behavior for ISV software applications or service references EV OEM devices and so on etc. .

In yet another example the analysis component can in various embodiments be further configured or adapted to provide metrics e.g. data regarding specific placements performance measurements traffic quality regarding visitor usage and conversion information and so on etc. such as contract metrics performance metrics and the like to marketplace participants e.g. ISVs OEMs EVs device redistributors etc. that can give the marketplace participants the ability to track specific placements and measure performance and quality of traffic by analyzing visitor usage conversion information and so on etc. Thus in particular limiting implementations of device or system analysis component can be configured or adapted to provide performance metrics regarding the one or more contract s to one or more OEM EV s or ISVs for instance by reference to the at least a subset of the contract information. In still another example the analysis component can in various embodiments be adapted or configured to generate insights from analysis of customer usage trends e.g. market share visits page views demographics etc. and aggregated transaction data e.g. price conversions placement location or entry point device type etc. to help marketplace participants e.g. ISVs OEMs EVs device redistributors etc. better target placements optimize revenue and create more productive user experiences. Accordingly in particular non limiting implementations of device or system analysis component can be configured or adapted to provide access to one or more OEM EV s or ISVs and to create the one or more market analytic s including information regarding aggregate market behavior for one or more ISV software application s or service s or links or references thereto etc. or one or more OEM EV device s .

In still other exemplary implementations of device or system the disclosed subject matter can provide a software distribution system such as a marketplace market etc. as described above regarding etc. for example configured or adapted to provide access to one or more OEM EV s and or one or more ISV s and can be configured or adapted to display one or more ISV software application s or service s or links or references thereto etc. one or more OEM EV device s one or more market analytic s regarding the one or more ISV software application s or service s or links or references thereto etc. or the one or more OEM EV device s . The software distribution system can be further configured or adapted to track one or more contract s formed via the software distribution system for placement or conversion of an ISV software application or a link or a reference thereto etc. or a service or a link or a reference thereto etc. on an OEM EV device based on contract information such as a unique contract identification number created by the software distribution system for the one or more contract s and contract information further comprising a reference to a contract tracking component a trackable attribute of the one or more contract s a specific contract term of the one or more contract s or a network reference to a resource as described above configured or adapted to provide enhanced access to the ISV software application or the service. Moreover exemplary implementations of device or system the disclosed subject matter can further configure or adapt the software distribution system to facilitate placing instructions into the one or more ISV software application s or service s or link s or reference s thereto etc. wherein the instructions can be configured or adapted to direct the OEM EV device to employ a subset of the contract information upon the accessing the ISV software application or a link or a reference thereto etc. or the service or a link or a reference thereto etc. as described above.

In further non limiting implementations of device or system the disclosed subject matter can further configure or adapt the software distribution system to receive for the one or more contract s conversion information related to the contract information the one or more ISV software application s or the service s or link s or reference s thereto etc. or the OEM EV device in response to a request to or query of the ISV for the one or more contract s to send a request to or query the ISV for the conversion information by reference to the subset of the contract information and to accept a payment for facilitating the formation of the one or more contract s based on the placement or the conversion of the one or more ISV software application s or service s or link s or reference s thereto etc. or an invocation of the one or more ISV software application s or service s or link s or reference s thereto etc. on the OEM EV device. In yet other exemplary implementations of device or system the software distribution system or a portion thereof can be configured or adapted to create one or more market analytic s including information regarding aggregate market behavior for the one or more ISV software application s or service s or links or references thereto etc. or the one or more OEM EV device s and to provide performance metrics regarding the one or more contract s to the OEM EV or the ISV by reference to the subset of the contract information. In still other exemplary implementations device or system or portions thereof e.g. such as a payment component etc. of the disclosed subject matter can be further configured or adapted to receive a payment for facilitating formation of the one or more contract s based on the placement or the conversion of the one or more of the ISV software application s or service s or links or references thereto etc. or based on an invocation of the one or more ISV software application s or service s or links or references thereto etc. on the one or more OEM EV device s for instance as described further in reference to etc.

As depicted device or system is described as a monolithic device or system. However it is to be understood that the various components and or the functionality provided thereby can be incorporated into the host processor or provided by other connected devices. Accordingly it is to be understood that more or less of the described functionality may be implemented combined and or distributed e.g. among network devices servers databases and the like according to context system design considerations and or marketing factors.

Processor can be a processor dedicated to analyzing and performing functions on information received by input component and or generating information for transmission by an output component . Processor can be a processor that controls one or more portion s of system or device and or a processor that analyzes information received by input component generates information for transmission by output component and performs various decoding algorithms of decoding component . Decoding component can include various algorithms and routines to facilitate communication according specified network protocols and coding algorithms.

While decoding component is shown external to the processor and memory it is to be understood that decoding component can include decoding code stored in storage component and subsequently retained in memory for execution by processor . It can be understood that various routines performed by system or device can utilize artificial intelligence based methods in connection with performing inference and or probabilistic determinations and or statistical based determinations in connection with various aspects of the disclosed subject matter.

System or device can additionally comprise memory e.g. memory etc. that is operatively coupled to processor and that stores information such as described above parameters information and the like wherein such information can be employed in connection with implementing various aspects as described herein. Memory can additionally store received data or information e.g. information such as market analytics regarding aggregate market behavior for a plurality of ISV software applications or services references and a plurality of OEM devices ISV and or OEM account or profile information contract or performance metrics code or instructions e.g. Code or Instr s contract information conversion information additional tracking information queries requests etc. as well as software routines and instructions as described above in reference to etc. for example.

As an illustration of a non limiting implementation of the disclosed subject matter an exemplary device can be configured or adapted to store e.g. in storage component in memory etc. a software vendor application or a service or a link or a reference thereto etc. wherein the software vendor application or a link or a reference thereto etc. or service or a link or a reference thereto etc. can be configured or adapted to locate contract information stored on the device . For instance as described above contract information can be associated with a contract between a software vendor providing the software vendor application or service or a link or a reference thereto etc. and the device provider e.g. such as manufacturer an OEM an EV a redistributor and so on etc. to place the software vendor application or service or a link or a reference thereto etc. on the device . Thus exemplary device can configured or adapted to store e.g. in storage component in memory etc. the software vendor application or service or a link or a reference thereto etc. that refers the device to a tracking component e.g. a contract tracking component such as Tracking Component etc. of a software distribution system such as system marketplace market etc. e.g. as described above regarding etc. when the software vendor application or service or a link or a reference thereto etc. is invoked as described previously. Moreover exemplary device can configured or adapted to transmit e.g. via output component etc. a subset of the contract information to the tracking component to facilitate tracking the contract. In other non limiting embodiments exemplary device can configured or adapted to provide a trackable attribute of the contract to the tracking component as part of the subset of the contract information as further described herein for example regarding etc.

It will be understood that storage component and memory and or any combination thereof as described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . The memory is intended to comprise without being limited to these and any other suitable types of memory including processor registers and the like. In addition by way of illustration and not limitation storage component can include conventional storage media as in known in the art e.g. hard disk drive .

It can be understood that various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. As used herein the terms device component system and the like are likewise intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a device component subcomponent system portions thereof and so on may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on computer and the computer can be a component. One or more component s may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computer s .

It can be further understood that while a brief overview of exemplary systems methods scenarios and or devices has been provided the disclosed subject matter is not so limited. Thus it can be further understood that various modifications alterations addition and or deletions can be made without departing from the scope of the embodiments as described herein. Accordingly similar non limiting implementations can be used or modifications and additions can be made to the described embodiments for performing the same or equivalent function of the corresponding embodiments without deviating therefrom.

One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that the various embodiments of disclosed and related systems devices and or methods described herein can be implemented in connection with any computer or other client or server device which can be deployed as part of a computer network or in a distributed computing environment and can be connected to any kind of data store. In this regard the various embodiments described herein can be implemented in any computer system or environment having any number of memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units. This includes but is not limited to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment or a distributed computing environment having remote or local storage.

Distributed computing provides sharing of computer resources and services by communicative exchange among computing devices and systems. These resources and services include the exchange of information cache storage and disk storage for objects such as files. These resources and services also include the sharing of processing power across multiple processing units for load balancing expansion of resources specialization of processing and the like. Distributed computing takes advantage of network connectivity allowing clients to leverage their collective power to benefit the entire enterprise. In this regard a variety of devices may have applications objects or resources that may utilize disclosed and related systems devices and or methods as described for various embodiments of the subject disclosure.

Each object etc. and computing objects or devices etc. can communicate with one or more other object s etc. and computing object s or device s etc. by way of the communications network either directly or indirectly. Even though illustrated as a single element in network may comprise other computing objects and computing devices that provide services to the system of and or may represent multiple interconnected networks which are not shown. Each object etc. or etc. can also contain an application such as applications that might make use of an API or other object software firmware and or hardware suitable for communication with or implementation of disclosed and related systems devices methods and or functionality provided in accordance with various embodiments of the subject disclosure.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems can be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many networks are coupled to the Internet which provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks though any network infrastructure can be used for exemplary communications made incident to employing disclosed and related systems devices and or methods as described in various embodiments.

Thus a host of network topologies and network infrastructures such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures can be utilized. The client is a member of a class or group that uses the services of another class or group to which it is not related. A client can be a process e.g. roughly a set of instructions or tasks that requests a service provided by another program or process. The client process utilizes the requested service without having to know any working details about the other program or the service itself.

In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client is usually a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the illustration of as a non limiting example computers etc. can be thought of as clients and computers etc. can be thought of as servers where servers etc. provide data services such as receiving data from client computers etc. storing of data processing of data transmitting data to client computers etc. although any computer can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances. Any of these computing devices may be processing data forming metadata synchronizing data or requesting services or tasks that may implicate disclosed and related systems devices and or methods as described herein for one or more embodiment s .

A server is typically a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet or wireless network infrastructures. The client process may be active in a first computer system and the server process may be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects utilized pursuant to disclosed and related systems devices and or methods can be provided standalone or distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

In a network environment in which the communications network bus is the Internet for example the servers etc. can be Web servers with which the clients etc. communicate via any of a number of known protocols such as the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . Servers etc. may also serve as clients etc. as may be characteristic of a distributed computing environment.

As mentioned advantageously the techniques described herein can be applied to devices or systems where it is desirable to employ disclosed and related systems devices and or methods. It should be understood therefore that handheld portable and other computing devices and computing objects of all kinds are contemplated for use in connection with the various embodiments e.g. anywhere that a device can provide a placement opportunity for an application such as a software application from an ISV or a service such as an online service or links or references thereto etc. . Accordingly the below general purpose remote computer described below in is but one example of a computing device. Additionally disclosed and related systems devices and or methods can include one or more aspect s of the below general purpose computer such as display storage analysis control etc.

Although not required embodiments can partly be implemented via an operating system for use by a developer of services for a device or object and or included within application software that operates to perform one or more functional aspect s of the various embodiments described herein. Software may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computer s such as client workstation s server s or other device s . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that computer systems have a variety of configurations and protocols that can be used to communicate data and thus no particular configuration or protocol should be considered limiting.

With reference to an exemplary remote device for implementing one or more embodiment s includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit .

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media and can be any available media that can be accessed by computer . The system memory may include computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . By way of example and not limitation memory may also include an operating system application programs other program modules and program data.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through input devices . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as output interface . In addition to a monitor computers can also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and a printer which may be connected through output interface .

The computer may operate in a networked or distributed environment using logical connections to one or more other remote computer s such as remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node or any other remote media consumption or transmission device and may include any or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a network such local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks buses. Such networking environments are commonplace in homes offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

As mentioned above while exemplary embodiments have been described in connection with various computing devices and network architectures the underlying concepts may be applied to any network system and any computing device or system in which it is desirable to employ disclosed and related systems devices and or methods.

Also there are multiple ways to implement the same or similar functionality e.g. an appropriate API tool kit driver code operating system control standalone or downloadable software object etc. which enables applications and services to use disclosed and related systems devices methods and or functionality. Thus embodiments herein are contemplated from the standpoint of an API or other software object as well as from a software or hardware object that implements one or more aspect s of disclosed and related systems devices and or methods as described herein. Thus various embodiments described herein can have aspects that are wholly in hardware partly in hardware and partly in software as well as in software.

In addition the words exemplary and non limiting are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. For the avoidance of doubt the subject matter disclosed herein is not limited by such examples. Moreover any aspect or design described herein as exemplary and or non limiting is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs nor is it meant to preclude equivalent exemplary structures and techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has contains and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims for the avoidance of doubt such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

As mentioned the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. As used herein the terms component system and the like are likewise intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on computer and the computer can be a component. In addition one or more component s may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computer s .

Systems described herein can be described with respect to interaction between several components. It can be understood that such systems and components can include those components or specified sub components some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components and various permutations and combinations of the foregoing. Sub components can also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components hierarchical . Additionally it should be noted that one or more component s may be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality or divided into several separate sub components and that any one or more middle component layer s such as a management layer can be provided to communicatively couple to such sub components in order to provide integrated functionality. Any components described herein may also interact with one or more other component s not specifically described herein but generally known by those of skill in the art.

In view of the exemplary systems described herein methods that can be implemented in accordance with the described subject matter can be better appreciated with reference to the flowcharts of the various figures and vice versa. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methods may be shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Where non sequential or branched flow is illustrated via flowchart it can be understood that various other branches flow paths and orders of the blocks may be implemented which achieve the same or a similar result. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methods described hereinafter.

In addition to the various embodiments described herein it is to be understood that other similar embodiments can be used or modifications and additions can be made to the described embodiment s for performing the same or equivalent function of the corresponding embodiment s without deviating therefrom. Still further multiple processing chips or multiple devices can share the performance of one or more function s described herein and similarly storage can be effected across a plurality of devices. Accordingly the invention should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather should be construed in breadth spirit and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

As described above regarding etc. for example in exemplary implementations of the disclosed subject matter a GUI can be provided for example to facilitate contracting for placement or conversion of a software application or a service or a link or a reference thereto etc. on an OEM device e.g. OEM device etc. distributing software or promoting online services device customization and or pre installing software applications or services or links or references thereto etc. on the OEM device according to various aspects of the disclosed subject matter among other related functions. In addition additional embodiments of the disclosed subject matter can provide computer executable components that can be stored on a computer readable storage medium e.g. storage component etc. and that in response to execution by a computing device e.g. host processor processor etc. can cause the computing device to display information e.g. on the computing device on a remote computing device over a network etc for example such as via a GUI.

For example depicts an exemplary non limiting block diagram of a computer readable storage medium e.g. storage component etc. that can comprise computer executable components that in response to execution by a computing device e.g. host processor processor etc. can cause the computing device to display information e.g. on the computing device on a remote computing device over a network etc . As a non limiting example the computer executable components of the computer readable storage medium can comprise a first interface component that can be configured to display a first set of contract terms and to receive first input from one or more ISV s after authentication of the one or more ISV s . For instance the first input can relate to or be associated with one or more OEM device s e.g. OEM device etc. of one or more OEM s . As a further example the first set of contract terms can be related to or associated with an offer to place one or more ISV software application s or service s or links or references thereto etc. e.g. App. Ref. on the OEM device.

In addition the computer executable components of the computer readable storage medium can comprise a second interface component that can be configured to display a second set of contract terms and to receive second input from one or more OEM s after authentication of the one or more OEM s . For example the second input can relate to or be associated with one or more ISV s . As a further example the second set of contract terms can be related to or associated with an offer to compensate for the placement of the one or more ISV software application s or service s or links or references thereto etc. e.g. App. Ref. on the OEM device.

The computer executable components of the computer readable storage medium can further comprise a contract formation component that in various embodiments can be configured to create or generate contract information e.g. such as a trackable or a unique contract identification number Contract Info. etc. relating to a contract. For instance a contract can be formed with the contract formation component for example via the first and or the second interface component based in part on acceptance of the first or second contract terms such as can be indicated by the first or second input by the one or more ISV s and or the one or more OEM s respectively.

In other exemplary implementations computer readable storage medium can also comprise a contract tracking component e.g. a contract tracking component such as Tracking Component etc. that can be configured to track performance under the contract of one or more term s of the first or second set of contract terms as further described herein for example based in part on a subset of the contract information. For instance in addition to various non limiting examples of contract information as described herein the subset of the contract information can include one or more of a trackable contract identification number a reference to the contract tracking component e.g. Tracking Component a trackable attribute of the contract a trackable attribute of the contract formed e.g. as further described herein etc. a specific contract term for the contract e.g. payment method payment amount etc. or an ISV reference that facilitates providing enhanced access to the at least one of the software application or the service as further described herein. In yet another non limiting implementation the trackable attribute of the contract can include among other things one or more OEM device entry point references. As further described herein OEM device entry point references can include for instance a taskbar reference a desktop reference a browser favorite reference a start menu reference a general pop up reference a context specific pop up reference and so on etc. Thus in various non limiting example the trackable attribute of the contract can include one or more OEM device entry point references that are trackable such as by associating each of the one or more OEM device entry point references with a trackable entry point identification number in the contract information.

In still other exemplary implementations computer readable storage medium can further comprise a payment component configured to receive a payment. As a non limiting example as described above regarding etc. a payment can be determined e.g. determined by one or more of market ISV OEM or automated systems acting on behalf of ISV of OEM or portions thereof etc. based on the placement the conversion the invoking or the accessing and or otherwise as described herein for facilitating formation of the contract. Thus in exemplary non limiting implementations the payment can be received at least among other things based on one or more of the placement or the conversion of the one or more ISV software application s or service s or links or references thereto etc. e.g. App. Ref. on the OEM device. In yet other non limiting implementations computer readable storage medium can comprise a storage component further including a computer executable component not shown providing similar functionality as described above for instance regarding . For example storage component can further comprise a computer executable component providing functionality as described in reference to analysis component . Thus as can be seen in the computer executable components can cause a computing device to display information e.g. on the computing device on a remote computing device over a network etc for example such as via the exemplary non limiting GUI as described below.

Accordingly depict various non limiting examples of a GUI suitable for use with exemplary aspects of the disclosed subject matter. For instance depicts a non limiting example of a GUI Registration Page that can facilitate account creation in a software distribution system or marketplace as described herein regarding etc. such as market marketplace system and the like for one or more OEM s and one or more ISV s . depicts an exemplary GUI Login Page that can facilitate providing access for the one or more OEM s and one or more ISV s to the software distribution system or marketplace to enable pre installing software applications or services or links or references thereto etc. on a device e.g. OEM device etc. to facilitate contracting for placement or conversion of a software application or a service or a link or a reference thereto etc. on the device e.g. OEM device etc. .

As can be seen in the GUI Pages can further facilitate searching for applications or services or links or references thereto etc. e.g. App. Ref. for placement on OEM devices via for example a search bar and a category based search at . For instance by selecting one of the listings such as listing for example in the gaming software category the OEM or other user e.g. ISV device redistributor etc. can be presented with a listing page for listing .

For example illustrates a non limiting example of a GUI Listing Page that facilitates presenting and or displaying one of the one or more ISV software application s or service s or links or references thereto etc. to one or more OEM s and one or more ISV s . For instance exemplary GUI Listing Page facilitates presenting and or displaying the ISV software applications or services or links or references thereto etc. associated with the listing in the gaming software category to one or more OEM s and one or more ISV s . As a result the one or more OEM s or the one or more ISV s can as non limiting examples browse the listing description and listing data contract terms e.g. one or more payment method s such as bounty revenue share and the like and one or more associated indication s of conversion such as activation registration and so on etc. listing system requirements user target information one or more application or service placement icon or logo or other relevant screenshot s for listing and one or more control s e.g. checkboxes textboxes buttons etc. that can provide to an OEM for example the ability to indicate consent to be bound by the terms of the offer and or any other marketplace terms or agreements represented by listing the ability to accept the offer and so on.

Accordingly exemplary GUI Listing Page can seen to further facilitate for example facilitate contracting for placement or conversion of a software application or a service or a link or a reference thereto etc. on an OEM device e.g. OEM device etc. distributing software or promoting online services device customization and or pre installing software applications or services or links or references thereto etc. on the OEM device according to various aspects of the disclosed subject matter among other related functions. It is noted that upon acceptance of the offer for listing for example software distribution system or marketplace as described herein regarding etc. such as market marketplace system and the like can facilitate creating contract information e.g. such as the unique contract identification number Contract Info. etc. in response to the contract formed by the acceptance of the offer between the OEM and the ISV as described herein.

In yet other non limiting implementations demonstrate an exemplary software distribution system or marketplace that can facilitate creation of a listing such as listing for example in the gaming software category e.g. for an application or for a service such as an online service etc. . For example depicts a non limiting example of a GUI Listing Info Page that facilitates creation of the listing such as by ISV for example. Thus ISV can provide and the exemplary software distribution system or marketplace can receive contract information about the listing for the application or services or links or references thereto etc. e.g. App. Ref. for placement on OEM devices . As a further non limiting example such contract information can comprise a title and category description and screenshot as described above.

In a further non limiting aspect demonstrates a non limiting example of a GUI Add Tags Page that facilitates adding further contract information to the listing such as by ISV for example. For instance ISV can provide and the exemplary software distribution system or marketplace can receive contract information such as system requirements and user target information as previously described. For example contract information about system requirements can comprise one or more of a device type that the listing is intended for e.g. desktop tablet smartphone etc. operating system specification that the listing is intended for e.g. brand or type and version such as Windows 7 Android 3.0 etc. a device hardware or software specification that the listing is intended for e.g. RAM hard disk Internet browser etc. and the like etc.

In another example contract information about user target information can comprise one or more of an industry segment the listing is intended for e.g. consumer SMB enterprise healthcare government financial legal etc. a geographical region the listing is intended for a demographic the listing is intended for and the like etc. In yet another example contract information about listing can comprise a device location specific placement or entry point preference not shown e.g. taskbar desktop start menu etc. as further described herein.

In a yet another non limiting aspect illustrates another non limiting example of a GUI Commission Page that facilitates adding still further contract information to the listing such as by ISV for example. For instance ISV can provide and the exemplary software distribution system or marketplace can receive contract information such as one or more contract term s e.g. one or more payment method s such as bounty revenue share and the like and one or more associated indication s of conversion such as activation registration and so on etc. . In a further example contract information that can be provided about a listing can also comprise one or more of a market display preference for the listing e.g. display continuously display for a limited time etc. a contract duration etc.

In a still another non limiting aspect illustrates an exemplary GUI Listing Assets Page that facilitates adding still further contract information to the listing such as by ISV for example. For instance ISV can provide and the exemplary software distribution system or marketplace can receive contract information comprising one or more of link or Web App an application or service placement icon or logo file and a Client based App . As an example for a listing of a service such as an online service a web based application e.g. software as a service etc. or a link or a reference thereto etc. GUI Listing Assets Page facilitates entering a landing page URL e.g. ISV reference to ISV Commerce Platform etc. as well as one or more text descriptor s for particular placements. As a further described above the landing page URL e.g. the ISV reference can comprise a URL to an ISV webpage or other online resource operated by or on behalf of the ISV that allows a conversion e.g. software application to be purchased upgraded activated or a service to be subscribed renewed etc. that facilitates providing enhanced access e.g. greater functionality after conversion to the software application or the service or a link or a reference thereto etc. . In yet another example for a listing of an application such as a software application a trial version etc. GUI Listing Assets Page facilitates providing the software distribution system or marketplace with Client based App comprising a version of the application for loading on the one or more OEM device s . For instance as described herein Client based App can comprise an application such as App. Ref. that can be uploaded to the software distribution system or marketplace via the GUI Listing Assets Page . As further described herein App. Ref. and thus Client based App can comprise App. Service Reference as modified by including or incorporating Code or Instr s .

In a further non limiting aspect demonstrates an exemplary GUI Review and Publish Page that facilitates reviewing and publishing the listing. To that end GUI Review and Publish Page allows an ISV to review for the listing the title the one or more screenshot s the description the system requirements the user target information the one or more contract term s e.g. one or more payment method s such as bounty revenue share and the like and one or more associated indication s of conversion such as activation registration a contract duration and so on etc. and the like as described above. In addition GUI Review and Publish Page can further comprise preview of the listing and one or more control s e.g. checkboxes textboxes buttons etc. that can provide to an ISV for example the ability to indicate that the listing information is correct and or consent to be bound by the terms of the listing and or any other marketplace terms or agreements etc. the ability to publishing the listing etc.

In a exemplary non limiting implementations depicts a further non limiting example of a GUI Manage Listings Page that can facilitate for an ISV having an account management of listings for placement of applications or services in a software distribution system or marketplace as described herein regarding etc. such as market marketplace system and the like. For instance GUI Manage Listings Page allows an ISV to review list sort manage and so on one or more listing s for placement of applications or services or links or references thereto etc. e.g. App. Ref. etc. . Likewise in a further non limiting implementations demonstrates a further non limiting example of a GUI Contract Listings Page that can facilitate for an ISV or an OEM having an account management of contracts for placement of applications or services or links or references thereto etc. e.g. App. Ref. etc. on one or more OEM device s in the software distribution system or marketplace. For instance GUI Manage Listings Page allows an ISV or an or an OEM to review list sort manage and so on one or more contract s formed for the placement of applications or services or links or references thereto etc. e.g. App. Ref. etc. on one or more OEM device s .

Accordingly exemplary GUI Performance Metrics Page of the software distribution system or marketplace can facilitate providing performance metrics regarding the one or more contract s formed by reference to a subset of the contract information e.g. such as the unique contract identification number etc. to one or more of the OEM or the ISV who are counterparties to the one or more contract s formed . As non limiting examples exemplary GUI Performance Metrics Page can facilitate providing an overview table e.g. showing applicable amounts such as bounty revenue share total and the like etc. based on a selection of aspects of conversion information associated with the contract formed e.g. a select on aspects including without limitation visits registrations activations sales date range of interest and other items of conversion information as described herein etc. one or more performance graph s summary tables e.g. summary table based on user target information such as geographical regions table based on device location specific placement or entry point preference e.g. taskbar desktop start menu browser bookmark etc. and the like etc. .

While the disclosed subject matter has been described in connection with the disclosed embodiments and the various figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments may be used or modifications and additions may be made to the described embodiments for performing the same function of the disclosed subject matter without deviating therefrom. In other instances variations of process parameters e.g. configuration number of components aggregation of components process step timing and order addition and or deletion of process steps addition of preprocessing and or post processing steps etc. can be made to further optimize the provided structures devices and methods as shown and described herein. In any event the structures and devices as well as the associated methods described herein have many applications in customer relations management order processing and so on. Therefore the disclosed subject matter should not be limited to any single embodiment described herein.

