---

title: Method and system for generating a unified database from data sets
abstract: A method for generating a unified database includes receiving a structured set of data, where each set is made up of records having fields, aggregating values within a first field of the records, automatically applying a set of rules to the first field values to determine correlations among the first field values, calculating a confidence level regarding a label for the first field, providing the label to the first field, storing the first field values in the first field in the unified database, and receiving more information to increase the confidence level. A system for generating a clinical database and a method for using the database are also described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08892609&OS=08892609&RS=08892609
owner: Medidata Solutions, Inc.
number: 08892609
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140801
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority from U.S. application Ser. No. 13 974 294 filed Aug. 23 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 799 331 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Medical testing and clinical trials generate considerable quantities of data. For a multitude of reasons there has been little success in establishing a comprehensive database of such data. For example health care professionals often do not perform medical tests in a structured atmosphere whereby the data from those tests may be recorded in a systematic or meaningful way. Additionally even when medical tests are performed in a structured atmosphere such as part of a clinical trial the clinical trial data may be proprietary to the sponsor of the trial and not shared with other parties such as sponsors the regulatory agencies or the public. Moreover even if the data were to be shared the data are typically not collected in the same exact format for each test or each trial resulting in difficulty categorizing the data in a comprehensible way. Furthermore attempts at categorizing such data have involved extremely labor intensive manual mapping of data and classifications.

Where considered appropriate reference numerals may be repeated among the drawings to indicate corresponding or analogous elements. Moreover some of the blocks depicted in the drawings may be combined into a single function.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. However it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the present invention.

Embodiments of the present invention may be used with respect to clinical data but the invention is not limited to such embodiments. Embodiments may be used with any data system involving large amounts of data that may exist in data sets. Clinical data includes metabolic data which may include blood pressure data heart rate data and other metabolism data as well as operational data which may include monitoring data such as protocol adherence adverse events auto query rate early termination rate and screen failure rate metadata associated with the collection of metabolic data or other data related to the gathering or processing of data in clinical trials such as demographic enrollment recruitment and payment data.

Clinical data are often collected in data sets and the data may be collected from all types of clinical sources in various clinical settings including physicals hospital admissions medical office visits clinical trials off site or mobile participation in clinical trials etc. One non limiting example of such a data set is a CHEM 7 test or panel an illustration of which is shown in . The CHEM 7 is a common laboratory test ordered by health care providers and includes a set of seven measurements of chemical constituents of blood including blood urea nitrogen BUN carbon dioxide CO sometimes called bicarbonate HCO creatinine glucose chloride Cl potassium K and sodium Na . This test has a number of names including SMA 7 sequential multiple analysis SMAC 7 sequential multi channel analysis with computer and BMP basic metabolic panel . Other similar chemical tests are CHEM 8 which adds Calcium Ca to the CHEM 7 CHEM 12 CHEM 20 and a CMP comprehensive metabolic panel . Other types of diagnostic tests that may be performed in a clinical setting are a CBC complete blood count cholesterol tests blood gas tests renal tests urinalysis CSF cerebrospinal fluid and liver and kidney function tests. Often a patient s vital signs or vitals are taken an example of which is shown in and these may include systolic and diastolic blood pressure heart rate or pulse respiratory rate and body temperature. Other sets of information that may be recorded in a clinical setting include adverse events or reactions to a medication an example of which is shown in which may include the name of the medication the adverse event here stomachache the start and end dates for the adverse event and its severity. The description herein is not limited to data from these enumerated tests and panels and the present invention is applicable to any data collected in a structured data set.

Being able to mine the data may be useful but because the database labels for these tests or test types and their values field or record names are not standardized e.g. some tests may call systolic blood pressure SYS BP and others may call it SBP it may not be easy or practical to aggregate the data based on the labels or to query such data stored in disparate databases. However there are often typical ranges associated with the values of a test collected within a dataset for a panel and the tests often appear in a panel in the same location in a data set within a clinical setting.

By using medical and clinical knowledge understanding the ways that data are collected and organized knowing statistical distributions of test values and accessing medical dictionaries and other sources of information rules may be produced to automatically determine into what category i.e. what test type actual data set values should be placed. In other words even if it is not known a priori that a test value is a systolic blood pressure value for example by knowing that the test value is part of a data set that includes five test values and that the range of all the same test values falls within the range of systolic blood pressure it may be statistically determined that the test value is a systolic blood pressure value. Each of the test values in the same data set can be analyzed in the same way and it may be calculated that the other test values comprise diastolic blood pressure heart rate respiratory rate and temperature which calculation as described further herein may provide further confirmation of the identity of the record type e.g. vitals and values of the data set as a whole. For example the fact that there are two data points in each data set with one always greater than the other may help conclude that the two values are systolic and diastolic pressure rather than say height and weight. If the data values are alphabetical medical and pharmaceutical dictionaries may be used to determine symptoms or medications and date values may indicate whether the symptoms are adverse reactions to a drug during a clinical trial an adverse event or records of events in a patient s medical history.

Once the type of test is known from the test values the values can then be inserted into a comprehensive database and uniform labels can be determined for the test type. Labels may be determined in several ways including that labels may be created based on a pre determined naming convention selected from labels which were applied to the known test values using industry standard labels in SDTM Study Data Tabulation Model format or a combination of these techniques. SDTM is a content standard that describes the core variables and domains to be used as a standardized submission data set format for regulatory authorities such as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration FDA . Additionally when data from different clinical sources are analyzed values from the same test type may be added to the database to generate a more comprehensive database than if the data were taken from just a single source.

Reference is now made to which is a block diagram of a system that includes database generator according to an embodiment of the present invention. Data sets may be input to database generator and based on rules database generator may produce unified database .

Rules generator may generate rules for determining how the data in data sets should be analyzed and inserted into the database. It may take as inputs initial rules inclusion exclusion criteria and refinements which may be generated after database generator reviews one or more data sets.

Data sets may come from one or more sources including but not limited to EDC electronic data collection programs eCRFs electronic case report forms in clinical trials patient health surveys such as SF 36 forms patient medical histories medical databases and manually entered data and may be contained in any of the previous sources in various formats including record field value R F V format. The data sets may have been recorded in any known format including ODM Operational Data Model format which is a standard that allows clinical systems to exchange data using XML Extensible Mark up Language and that defines the content and structure of CRFs.

Examples of data sets are shown in . These data sets may include any number of records having a number of fields. Example data set illustrated in includes 400 records having seven fields whose values are shown in columns . The data may come from a single clinical setting such as a clinical trial or one or more clinical sources such as multiple clinical trials or multiple medical histories from hospitals over a period of time. Records from a single source are typically structured in the same way i.e. the fields are arranged the same in all the records. It is not known a priori what the field labels are in column that is it is not known what the values in the record are measurements of. Similarly example data set in may include 300 records having five fields whose values are shown in columns and example data set in may include 500 records having five fields whose values are shown in columns .

Reference is now made to which is a block diagram illustrating a use of unified database according to an embodiment of the present invention. Once unified database has been generated databases and others may be generated using filters and may then contain subsets of unified database . The filters may be inclusion exclusion criteria or other criteria such as chemical tests vital test values adverse events type of study e.g. hypertension study pain study etc. therapeutic area e.g. oncology cardiology etc. or one or more rules . Then databases may be generated as one or more chemical lab test databases a vital signs database or an adverse events database. Other examples of databases generated may include a demographics database a concomitant medication database or a procedure based database. A concomitant medication is a drug or biological product taken by a subject during a clinical trial that is different from the drug being studied. A procedure based database may include a set of data that includes a quantitative analysis measuring some aspect of a condition for example analysis of how a tumor looks.

Thus the data sets input to database generator as well as databases ultimately generated may include any data including actual patient or clinical data or data that is computed from actual patient or clinical data. Moreover databases do not have to be static but can be generated and regenerated based on the content of unified database which itself may change as more data are added to it. Databases may also be virtualized databases that is they may virtually or logically be situated as a database layer above a physical database such as unified database .

In operation rules may be applied to a record and or to a field in the record. One rule that may be applied is to determine the type of field for example a numeric field a text or alphabetical field an alphanumeric field or a date or chronological field. Another rule that may be applied is to determine the environment in which the data were collected such as clinical or economic or physical etc. Another rule that may be applied is to determine the type of record or perhaps just that the current type of record is the same as the previous record or set of records. Another rule that may be applied in the clinical environment is to determine the patient to whom the record relates or perhaps just that the current record relates to the same patient as did the previous record or set of records.

Other rules may include determining correlations or statistics among fields within a record between fields of different records or between records themselves. These rules may include comparisons between the current fields and or records and for example stored statistics and distributions of known clinical measures or test types for numerical values dictionary entries for alphabetical and alphanumeric values and stored calendar information for date values.

In operation a measure of statistical confidence such as a confidence level or confidence coefficient of the correlations may be determined. Operation asks if the confidence level is high enough. If not for example it does not exceed a predetermined threshold more information may be needed possibly from reviewing more records reviewing other fields within the records applying more rules or refining the rules not all of these options are illustrated in . If the confidence level is high enough in operation the field and or record values may then be classified or labeled and put in unified database possibly along with the confidence level. In operation the fields and or records may be re processed after for example reviewing more records reviewing other fields within the records applying more rules or refining the rules in order to increase the confidence level at a later time.

Referring to data points circles may represent the distribution of all the Field 1 values aggregated from the panel. This distribution may be compared to the distributions of a number of known stored clinical measures including but not limited to heart rate respiratory rate CO carbon dioxide or bicarbonate Cl chloride Na sodium diastolic blood pressure systolic blood pressure and the measures shown in . shows statistical distributions and means for five of these clinical data measures respiratory rate CO diastolic blood pressure systolic blood pressure and sodium Na . The comparison of the calculated statistical distributions of Field 1 values with distributions of known stored clinical measures may also contribute to determining a confidence level.

In operation the confidence level may be compared to a threshold value which threshold value may be pre determined or received from a user of the method and system of the present invention. For the numeric values plotted in if the confidence level exceeds the threshold level it may be determined that the distribution of data points most closely resembles distribution which is the distribution of systolic blood pressure. Because the distributions compare favorably it may be determined in operation that the aggregated Field 1 values represent the test type systolic blood pressure and the values may be given the label SYS BP or any other suitable label.

The confidence level may also be stored and be further modified as described below with reference to operations performed on values from subsequent fields and records. For example if the confidence level does not exceed the threshold level in operation further operations on Field 1 values including but not limited to determination of a label for Field 1 values in may not be possible. Field 1 values and the results of their calculated statistical distribution may then be flagged in operation as unsuccessfully determined and may be stored for subsequent operations utilizing other successfully determined field values within the same data set.

Based on the determination in operation the 300 values from Field 1 of data set may be entered into unified database in operation . The result is shown in which contains Record Number Field Number Label and Value field or record names.

The Field 2 values of the panel the 80 65 85 . . . 70 values in Field 2 for records in may then be aggregated in operation and analyzed to calculate statistics which is similar to the functions performed in operations and including but not limited to plotting the values and determining mean median mode range and standard deviations and variances. In operation the statistics may then be compared to stored statistics and distributions of known clinical measures just as in operation . As with operation in some cases such as if only the raw data of known clinical measures are stored rather than their statistical results and distributions the statistical results and distributions of the stored data may be calculated as well as the statistical results of the current field values.

Referring to data points plusses may represent the distribution of all the Field 2 values collected from the panel. This distribution may be compared to the distributions of a number of known stored clinical measures including but not limited to heart rate respiratory rate CO carbon dioxide or bicarbonate Cl chloride Na sodium diastolic blood pressure systolic blood pressure and the measures shown in . Examining the distributions in it may be initially determined that the distribution of data points most closely resembles distribution which is the distribution for diastolic blood pressure.

Since the data for Field 1 have already been analyzed and determined to be systolic blood pressure operation may ask whether there is any correlation between the Field 2 measure and the Field 1 measure. Because a correlation between systolic and diastolic blood pressure may be known to exist e.g. as part of rules discussed further below in the same panel in operation the confidence level for determining labels may be increased for both the Field 1 and Field 2 values. Even if the Field 2 measures were not correlated with the Field 1 measure or other previous measures for example if the Field 1 values were determined to represent sodium Na there may still be sufficiently high statistical confidence that the Field 2 measure still represents diastolic blood pressure based on the statistical analysis and calculation discussed above.

As with the Field 1 values the comparison of the calculated statistical distributions of Field 2 values with distributions of known stored clinical measures may also contribute to determining the confidence level which may be compared to a threshold value. As before the threshold value may be pre determined or received from a user. If in operation the confidence level exceeds the threshold level then in operation the aggregated Field 2 values may be determined to represent the test type diastolic blood pressure and the values may be given the label DIAS BP or any other suitable label.

The confidence level may again be stored and be further modified based on operations performed on values from subsequent fields and records. If in operation the confidence level does not exceed the threshold level further operations on Field 2 values including determination of a label for Field 2 values in operation may not be possible. Field 2 values and the results of their calculated statistical distribution may be flagged in operation as unsuccessfully determined and may be stored for subsequent operations utilizing other successfully determined field values within the same data set.

After labeling the current field measure operation may then ask whether there are any more fields for the panel in the data sets. If so the process may loop back to operation to enter the field values into unified database . The result is shown in which contains Record Number Field Number Label and Value field or record names. If there are no more fields for the panel in the data sets the field values may be entered into unified database in operation and then in operation the process turns to the next group of data sets related to a different panel.

Referring to if in operation it is determined that the field type is text or alphanumeric then the flowchart in may be followed. In operation the field value e.g. a word or phrase may be compared to a reference such as a dictionary. If the data is clinical data a medical dictionary may be used. Examples of such dictionaries may include MedDRA Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities which includes information about medical terminology and may be used for coding adverse events clinical signs and symptoms procedures investigations indications and medical and social histories and the WHO World Health Organization Drug Dictionary a dictionary that includes medicinal product information. Thus the system may look into MedDRA for accepted adverse events or look into WHO Drug for accepted names of medications. For example Field 1 in record in includes Difenhydramine sic but that word does not appear in MedDRA or WHO Drug. A close word in WHO Drug is Diphenhydramine which is an antihistamine. In order to determine if this is the correct word it may be useful to compare the word in Field 1 in record to the words in Field 1 in the other records as shown in operation which may be considered a type of aggregation. There may be other instances of the word spelled the same or a close word with a different spelling. In the case of other Field 1 values are Aspirin Nytroglicerin sic and ASPIRIN. While Aspirin is spelled correctly the system may recognize Nytroglicerin as Nitroglycerin and ASPIRIN as Aspirin. If the system is still not sure what the word is in operation it may examine other fields in the same record. Once those comparisons are made the flow returns to operation in to determine the confidence level and then determine whether the confidence level is high enough. If so in operation the field is given a label in this case possibly Medication or Concomitant Medication. 

If the confidence level is not high enough then more Field 1 values may be examined or aggregated in order to determine the correlations among the values or the system may process Field 2 values in order to understand more about the record values or record type and possible relationships among the fields. For example the system may identify the Field 2 values of Headache Stomachache Migrain sic and Backach sic as Headache Stomach ache Migraine and Back ache. The system may label this field as Adverse Event and then determine that the Field 1 values are not only medications but are concomitant medications and label Field 1 accordingly.

Referring again to if in operation it is determined that the field type is a date then the flowchart in may be followed. In operation the field value may be compared to a reference such as a stored calendar. Different references may be used depending on the environment in which the data were collected. A stored calendar may include dates derived from other fields or other records and may relate to a particular patient if the data is clinical. In operation the system may examine other fields in the records and in operation may determine relationships between fields such as whether two dates are paired with each other one field s date values are always before or after another field s date values or whether the dates are before or after certain milestone dates related to a particular patient. If the system is still not sure what the date indicates in operation it may examine the same fields in other records to determine possible relationships and correlations among the records. Once those comparisons are made the flow returns to operation in to determine the confidence level and then determine whether the confidence level is high enough. If so in operation the field is given a label in this case possibly Start Date or End Date or Date of Service. If the confidence level is not high enough then the system may process values from other fields in order to understand more about the record values or record type and possible relationships among the fields. For example the system may identify the Field 5 values in of Moderate Mild and Severe and may label this field as Severity and then determine that the date field values may indicate adverse event start or end dates and label those fields accordingly.

Besides the operations shown in B and C other operations or series of operations may be contemplated to generate a unified database. For example in field values are described as being separately aggregated and then analyzed but in other embodiments multiple fields could be analyzed together in order to determine the record type. Steps shown in B and C may be used in each of the other flowcharts to determine field values record types or field labels. In addition although field types described are numeric alphabetical alphanumeric and date other types of fields may exist in the data sets and be analyzed and processed by the system.

Moreover the actual orders of the operations in the flowchart in B and C are not intended to be limiting and the operations may be performed in any practical order. For example although labels are entered into unified database in operations and in entries into the database may be made at the end of processing all of the data sets. And fields may be analyzed in conjunction with other fields in the same record or across the same field or other fields in other records. The general object of the operations in B and C is to generate a unified database by inputting data values from data sets detect or determine correlations among the data based on rules and determine the labels for the values fields and records.

As mentioned above system may include rules generator that generates rules that are fed into database generator . There may be initial rules which may be able to calculate 80 90 of the field values to determine a label for each value. After the system has processed the data patterns may be revealed that were not known and captured as initial rules. This is where refinements may enter the system and process some or all of the remainder of the field values. If data values still cannot be correlated even after the refinements they may remain as data sets until more information is received or rules are developed or refined later. Then calculations may be made with these data values using the new rules so that unified database may include these results.

Initial rules may include but are not limited to information about adverse events from MedDRA and about drugs from WHO Drug. Initial rules may also include the statistical distributions and mean median mode range and standard deviations and variances for the various clinical test types that the system may encounter including the metabolic panels vital signs blood gas readings blood tests and urinalyses. Initial rules may also include known correlations among the fields and values within a panel e.g. if systolic blood pressure is labeled then diastolic blood pressure should also be labeled in the same panel if a data set has 20 fields it may well be identified as a CHEM 20 panel or if there is a start date there may be an accompanying end date. Initial rules may include information about the format of records e.g. record field value format and the typical order of test types within panels such as a CHEM 7 panel. Initial rules may also include variations or combinations of statistical information based on age gender weight height and other demographic information. For example illustrates systolic blood pressure distribution which is for the population as a whole and distribution which may be systolic blood pressure for those without a history of hypertension. This data may be used to identify or modify a field label possibly in connection with the inclusion exclusion criteria . To do this inclusion criteria may be parsed to produce a set of logical statements that describe the patient population and allow the system to apply the appropriate clinical distributions. For example if it is known that some data sets were collected using inclusion exclusion criteria that separated out those without a history of hypertension e.g. there may be an inclusion criterion that says does not have hypertension then the data from those sets that correspond to systolic blood pressure may appear in unified database under the label SYS BP NO HYP rather than just SYS BP. 

Once unified database is generated it can be used in a number of ways. As illustrated in information can be placed in smaller databases such as virtualized or physical databases and . These databases may be similar to the data sets that were used to generate unified database but they may have more comprehensive data e.g. not just data from a single clinical trial and may have uniformly labeled fields. So database may be a Chem 7 database database may be a vitals database database may be an adverse events database and database may be a concomitant medication database. These databases can be used by drug sponsors hospitals clinics and information processing systems.

Another way to use unified database is in other subsequent clinical trials. Often a trial will be designed with a placebo arm in order to measure the effects of the drug under test in a random and blinded fashion. But in many countries it is not ethical or permissible by regulation to perform placebo tests with patients who are in dire need of the drug under test because some patients will not actually receive the drug. Using this unified database or databases in combination with inclusion exclusion criteria from prior clinical trials placebo arms can be developed using relevant data from previous clinical trials. Inclusion exclusion criteria which may be used as filters may include minimum age maximum age gender weight pre existing medical conditions and others. So long as the inclusion exclusion criteria for the previous clinical data match that of the drug under test the results of the active drug taking arm of a current clinical trial can be compared with the placebo arm of the previous clinical trial.

Such inclusion exclusion criteria may also come from protocol databases. An example of a protocol is shown below 

The data in unified database can also be used in predictive ways. For example the data can be used to forecast how a clinical trial or part of a clinical trial may run its course. Using operational e.g. trial enrollment recruitment payment etc. data one may examine how long it took study sites to recruit their cohorts of subjects using the inclusion exclusion criteria for their studies. Collecting this type of data in the database may allow a sponsor to see what the effects of using different inclusion exclusion criteria would be on how long it takes a study site to recruit its cohort and the sponsor can therefore select its criteria based on desired predicted recruitment time or at least have a better idea of how long the recruitment phase for a study may take and cost so that it can better prepare its study budget.

As another example if data in unified database shows a correlation between elevated levels of a certain metabolite and an increased risk of heart attack then that information can be used to look for patients with elevated levels of that metabolite in order to intervene before the predicted heart attack occurs or to investigate why some patients did not suffer a heart attack.

Moreover data that are categorized and placed in unified database may be useful to automate processes that are now performed manually. For example as mentioned above the data may be arranged in SDTM format which can be used to submit data in an automated manner to a regulatory agency such as the FDA rather than submitting the data in a text based format. Currently the FDA requires data to be submitted in SDTM format so sponsors and their agents often expend much effort transforming clinical trial data into SDTM format. The present invention thus may save a clinical trial sponsor time and money in preparing its regulatory documentation. In addition unifying the data in a standardized format e.g. SDTM and or ODM may allow it to be used in many companies database systems in the event that they want to analyze the data in the context of their own projects.

Prior approaches to developing clinical data databases have been to try to use uniform field names and then identify the field names as a way of mapping results. But these field names may be inconsistent systolic blood pressure may be called SYS SBP Systolic Sys BP or could be in different languages or could be spelled wrong. In contrast the present invention does not require mapping of data using the labels e.g. field or record names associated with the data sets themselves. Another benefit of the present invention is that it does not require the data to be arranged in any specific order within data sets. In different clinical trials values in a specific panel may appear in a different order but the invention can detect the correlation among the values as well as the statistical relationship among the records for that panel. For example vitals data sets may not always begin with systolic and diastolic blood pressure but may begin with heart rate. And although it is likely that systolic blood pressure would precede diastolic blood pressure that it not necessarily how all the data sets are structured and the system will be able to discern when that is the case.

In sum the present invention takes data sets from multiple studies and clinical settings and using a set of rules automatically performs calculations to place the data within a single categorized unified database that can later be used in other environments for analysis prediction regulatory filings etc. And as more data sets are used the categories and the rules can be refined.

Database generator as well as unified database itself may be implemented on a network for example over the Internet as a cloud based service or hosted service which may be accessed through a standard web service API application programming interface .

Aspects of the present invention may be embodied in the form of a system a computer program product or a method. Similarly aspects of the present invention may be embodied as hardware software or a combination of both and may run on or with a processor. Aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a computer program product saved on one or more computer readable media in the form of computer readable program code embodied thereon.

For example the computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example an electronic optical magnetic electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any combination thereof.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electromagnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Computer program code in embodiments of the present invention may be written in any suitable programming language. The program code may execute on a single computer or on a plurality of computers. The computer may include a processing unit in communication with a computer usable medium wherein the computer usable medium contains a set of instructions and wherein the processing unit is designed to carry out the set of instructions.

The above discussion is meant to be illustrative of the principles and various embodiments of the present invention. Numerous variations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art once the above disclosure is fully appreciated. It is intended that the following claims be interpreted to embrace all such variations and modifications.

