---

title: Large venue surveillance and reaction systems and methods using dynamically analyzed emotional input
abstract: Certain example embodiments relate to large venue surveillance and reaction systems and/or methods that take into account both subjective emotional attributes of persons having relations to the large venues, and objective measures such as, for example, actual or expected wait times, current staffing levels, numbers of customers to be serviced, etc. Pre-programmed scenarios are run in real-time as events stream in over one or more electronic interfaces, with each scenario being implemented as a logic sequence that takes into account at least an aspect of a representation of an inferred emotional state. The scenarios are run to (a) determine whether an incident might be occurring and/or might have occurred, and/or (b) dynamically determine a responsive action to be taken. A complex event processing engine may be used in this regard. The analysis may be used in certain example embodiments to help improve customer satisfaction at the large venue.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09449218&OS=09449218&RS=09449218
owner: Software AG USA, Inc.
number: 09449218
owner_city: Reston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141016
---
Certain example embodiments described herein relate to large venue surveillance and reaction systems and or methods. More particularly certain example embodiments described herein relate to large venue surveillance and reaction systems and or methods that take into account both subjective emotional attributes of persons having relations to the large venues and objective measures such as for example actual or expected wait times current staffing levels numbers of customers to be serviced etc. The analysis may be used in certain example embodiments to help improve customer satisfaction at the large venue.

Today the increasingly international nature of business rising levels of disposable income and other factors have led to increased air travel. For instance people oftentimes take regular domestic and or international flights for tourism to visit friends family to conduct business etc. Indeed the proliferation of airline loyalty programs suggests that frequent flying e.g. one or more times per month is commonplace for many people today.

Yet almost anyone who travels by air is familiar with the frustrating experience of having to stand in multiple lines at various points in an airport. The seemingly wasted time waiting in lines before reaching a boarding area reduces individuals abilities to enjoy themselves while traveling. Indeed numerous activities prevalent at airports cannot be enjoyed at all. Consider for example that long delay inhibit the ability to relax at or near a gate before boarding sip on a coffee while reading a newspaper drink an alcoholic beverage while watching a news broadcast or sporting event in a bar make a last call to a loved one check email or otherwise conduct business by telephone before going offline for the duration of the flight shop for clothes or gifts or pick up electronics e.g. a spare set of batteries or headphones so as to be able to enjoy a few films on the plane etc.

Certain example embodiments seek to address these and or other related issues. For instance certain example embodiments help address the issue of airport crowd congestion so as to produce a more even flow e.g. an improved or optimized through flow within the process of arriving at an airport and boarding an airplane and as such reduce the time spent waiting in lines. By doing so operational efficiencies can be gained customer passenger satisfaction can be enhanced and airport revenues can be increased.

Certain example embodiments involve determining a customer s emotional status by means of facial recognition based on data gathered from video cameras and social media e.g. via sentiment analysis etc. Certain example embodiments also help determine whether real time action s would be helpful in preventing reducing the likelihood of or resolving existing problems and or problems that arise during the through flow of passengers at an airport. By taking actions when appropriate the airport authority airline operators proprietors within the airport and others can benefit e.g. from improved overall customer perception of travel related services or products. Certain example embodiments thus provide a more holistic Customer Experience Management CEM or CXM solution.

It will be appreciated that the benefits to an airport airline proprietors etc. associated with determining these operational reactions in real time and thereby improving CEM can be equally applicable in other environments. For example railway stations amusement parks and or other areas where crowds are gathered can benefit from the example techniques set forth herein.

One aspect of certain example embodiments relates to enhancing the customer experience at a venue such that doing so becomes an input that can influence actions taken along with other known mechanisms. In addition it can also provide real time dynamic feedback as to the results of subsequent actions taken to deal with the problems. This approach advantageously in certain example instances can help tie together individual monitoring mechanisms for feedback and possible further actions. It is in the analysis of the behavior rather than the more simple use of camera technology to measure queues flow that helps achieve the satisfaction and dynamic reaction beneficial for coordinating various individual monitoring mechanisms to provide a complete solution in certain example embodiments.

Another aspect of certain example embodiments relates to using video surveillance in order to optimize or improve the operational efficiency and speed of processing passengers at a large venue. In addition the venue s video surveillance data may be used for security purposes.

Still another aspect of certain example embodiments relates to enabling a venue authority e.g. an airport authority or other authorized user define need for action algorithms which may take into account an extensible set of parameters custom weights etc. that help identify and potentially rank in order of severity perceivable problems. In certain example embodiments authorized users may specify problem types optional respective levels of severity etc. and such problems may be defined in terms of emotional sentiment etc. Additionally or in the alternative recommended resolutions may be defined in a similar way. For instance recommended solutions to problems may be ranked e.g. in order of impact number of issues they address and solve partially or completely etc. Certain example embodiments may make a determination as to what problems to resolve and how to resolve them e.g. if multiple possible problems are present e.g. based on a ranking. Wait times may be specified to confirm whether there is an effect in an implemented action plan. In certain example embodiments it may be possible to generate longer range e.g. daily weekly seasonal etc. staffing plans accommodative actions etc.

In certain example embodiments there is provided an information processing system comprising processing resources including at least one processor. The system further includes a first interface over which quantified representations of inferred emotional states of one or more individuals are electronically receivable. The processing resources are configured to at least dynamically perform a set of first pre programmed scenarios in real time as events continue to stream into the system via the first interface to determine whether an incident might be occurring and or might have occurred each said first scenario being implemented as a logic sequence that takes into account at least an aspect of a representation of an inferred emotional state and dynamically determine an action to be taken in response to a determination that a given incident might be occurring and or might have occurred the action being selected as an appropriate response for the given incident.

In certain example embodiments a method of monitoring a venue of interest is provided. The method includes receiving over a first electronic interface quantified representations of inferred emotional states of one or more individuals dynamically performing a set of pre programmed scenarios in real time as events continue to stream in over the first electronic interface to determine whether an incident might be occurring and or might have occurred each said first scenario being implemented as a logic sequence that takes into account at least an aspect of a representation of an inferred emotional state dynamically determining an action to be taken in response to a determination that a given incident might be occurring and or might have occurred the action being selected as an appropriate response for the given incident and issuing a message to cause the action to be taken.

Non transitory computer readable storage mediums tangibly storing instructions for performing the above summarized and or other approaches also are provided by certain example embodiments as well as corresponding computer programs.

These features aspects advantages and example embodiments may be used separately and or applied in various combinations to achieve yet further embodiments of this invention.

Certain example embodiments involve taking input from a multitude of cameras within a large venue e.g. an airport and analyzing people s emotional states reactions to various situations etc. By feeding this information as input into a processing engine e.g. an event based processing engine such as a complex event processing CEP engine or the like it is possible to combine this real time quantified emotional feed with other established input e.g. to enhance a customer s experience at and increase their satisfaction with the venue. As an example this technique can be used to smooth the flow through the large venue possibly with cost savings e.g. realized through more strategic resource deployment increased revenue for the venue s operators e.g. for shops who benefit from increased customer browse time that otherwise would be spent with those customers in line etc. It also becomes possible in certain example embodiments to improve reaction times for resolving issues thereby further enhancing the customers satisfaction levels.

An aspect of certain example embodiments relates to providing a more holistic view of all participants at a venue for their respective lifecycles at the venue. For instance in the airport example certain example embodiments provide a holistic view of all passengers within the complete passenger lifecycle within the airport e.g. from arriving at airport checking in passing through passport and or other security checks making inter terminal transfers walking through restaurants and shopping areas boarding etc. . By achieving this holistic view certain example embodiments facilitate the active reduction of wait times related to staffing issues and system and transport bottlenecks thereby freeing up passengers time which may be spent at leisure e.g. in restaurants and shops at an airport . Doing so may be advantageous in terms of leading to improvements in operational efficiencies at the venue increasing customer satisfaction levels generating higher revenues at the leisure locations etc.

Another aspect of certain example embodiments relates to using emotional analysis to improve customer experiences at a venue e.g. in determining whether there is a need for action what action should be taken etc. User definable algorithms may take into account this subjective information providing a reasoned approach for determining whether to take action and if so what action to take. Algorithms may be defined to take into account an extensible set of parameters custom weights for the parameters etc. In addition or in the alternative more objective measures may be incorporated into these and or other algorithms. More objective data may include for example average time spent at a check in kiosk which could be measured by the kiosks GUIs average time from ticket issuance at a kiosk to boarding percentage of passengers who print boarding passes at home scheduled vs. actual time of departure accuracy of flight delay time estimates etc. Algorithms may additionally or alternatively take into account flags such as for example flags indicative of a severe weather shutdown of all outgoing flights a security issue existing in Terminal X a fire at gates Y Z etc.

As alluded to above the example techniques described herein may be applied to a variety of different scenarios. However for ease of explanation an airport example will be discussed in greater detail below. Within a typical airport ecosystem there are a number of stakeholders including for example passengers customers airlines airport operations airport vendors security staff and others.

With an improved e.g. faster through flow of passenger traffic there are a number of benefits to these stakeholders. Passengers experiences can be improved from lower waiting times which can enable more time to be spent working resting shopping eating etc. Airlines can benefit because staffing levels can be better managed e.g. under and over staffing situations can be mitigated they can be perceived as providing better customer service they may not need to manage escalation scenarios or issues with passenger delays etc. Airport operation also can benefit from improved staff management being able to handle an increasing number of passengers in a more efficient manner providing a better infrastructure for all stakeholders etc. Airport vendors can benefit from decreased waiting times which may enable passengers to spend more time in shopping and restaurant areas likely leading to additional revenues etc. Security staff can benefit from better staff management fewer bottlenecks that cause less crowding gathering that potentially can put added pressure on security staff which in turn can lead to distractions making security more challenging and security lapses possibly more likely etc. Air traffic control can benefit as airline operators may hold up flights less regularly e.g. because they are waiting for status passengers less frequently etc.

In this vein the example through flow improvement techniques set forth herein can be particularly advantageous for customers at the venue e.g. passengers at an airport and vendors at the venue e.g. airport vendors . The former may gain a better customer experience and the latter may increase revenue and lower operational costs. In the airport context for example once passengers have proceeded through check in and security areas they reach gate areas where they wait until boarding. Once there there are a number of ways a passenger is likely to spend money including for example at duty free shops at bookstores and press stores convenience stores travel value stores fashion accessory stores gift souvenir stores technology entertainment stores jewelry stores at restaurants on services such as massage or shoe shine services with travel agencies etc. . It often is the case that the more time passengers have available in such areas the more likely they are to be able to spend and to actually spend.

It also is believed that if passengers board a plane having already had a good experience at their departure airports then airlines oftentimes are more able to continue to enhance their experiences while they are on board the aircraft. A total end to end experience for the passenger may be provided e.g. if the experience at the arrival airport target hotel etc. are improved in like ways. It will be appreciated that the same or similar customer care capabilities can be employed throughout every stage of an individual s journey in some instances.

Commercial feasibility can be demonstrated in connection with an airport example that helps speed up passenger through flow. The following assumptions are made for the purpose of this example demonstration 

In this worst case scenario using the annual passenger data from 2013 annual revenue at San Francisco Airport can be increased by more than 500 million e.g. approximately 45 million passengers 12 passenger approximately 540 million . Using these worst case scenario assumptions considered worst case because savings from staffing efficiencies are ignored a license fee for the technology described herein is very reasonable particularly given the significant increase in revenue. Furthermore in addition to operational efficiencies e.g. staff resourcing etc. and revenue enhancement customer experience improvements also can be realized. Not only can revenue be increased by providing passengers with more and sometimes any time in the boarding area where shopping restaurants and services are offered but there oftentimes is a higher propensity to purchase more when a passenger or any customer is in a more positive relaxed and happier frame of mind.

As alluded to above certain example embodiments collect data from various sources. In the airport example information may be gathered from the time at which a passenger arrives at the airport premises and proceeds through an airport up to the time of boarding. Sources may include for example video related data and social media related data. For instance video cameras positioned at various points of congestion at an airport e.g. check in security etc. to measure crowd volumes associated luggage etc. may be used. Furthermore data from the video cameras may be used to help identify facial expressions e.g. via facial recognition techniques of individuals in the area under surveillance in order to measure their sentiment e.g. on individual and collective bases. Social media e.g. Twitter Facebook etc. and an airport s own website also may provide an indication of sentiment etc.

As can be seen from indoor location tracking technology is provided e.g. through iBeacon transceiver technology or the like . Scanning bar codes QR codes etc. can also provide individualized tracking as well as a more course count of people moving through various locations at the airport e.g. check in security passport control etc. . Surveillance cameras are located throughout the airport building in the parking lot in the people carrier system etc. and the data from the cameras may be used to feed visual analysis systems. Social media from the passengers smart phone also may be fed into the analysis systems.

Based on these and or other feeds operational data is captured and a processing system e.g. an event based processing system such as a CEP engine or the like maps the operational data with the data provided by the feeds and filters the results according to a rating system. Under certain circumstances e.g. crowd volumes at Zone A are higher than X but staff levels at Zone A check in are lower than Y the rating system instigates or triggers an appropriate action to remedy or mitigate the problems e.g. long lines developing in some way. is a schematic diagram of such feeds triggers and actions working together in connection with certain example embodiments.

As alluded to above and as becomes clearer from feeds are sources of data from devices people sensors cameras vehicles etc. gathered from across a venue e.g. an airport stadium station museum or other venue or other source. Feed information may also include social media input website postings emails connections from external systems e.g. human resources management systems that indicate how many and which employees are or could be on duty etc. . Feeds may include real time and or static sources of data that are used by triggers in the trigger system to look for patterns. Thus feeds may come from a connection to a social media source that is scanned in a relevant way e.g. scanning of airport specific accounts a website such as Trip Advisor relevant to travel airline account postings restaurant and retailers account postings etc. location and speed of vehicles e.g. gathered directly from the vehicles using a GPS device or the like or indirectly via cameras or manual reports weather conditions e.g. obtained from the National Weather Service or some other outside provider as reported locally etc. people e.g. actual or inferred gender age weight height etc. flight information e.g. based on internal data a feed from the FAA or other official source etc. and or the like. Feeds may be received over a number of network interfaces e.g. such that data from disparate of remote and or local data sources can be received. This may include for example using Twitter or Facebook REST APIs using MQTT to receive real time data of the location velocity and other metrics surrounding the people carrier vehicles etc. In brief any suitable means for electronically receiving relevant data from internal and or external data sources may be used in certain example embodiments.

Triggers in the trigger system are simple or complex analytics and triggering patterns that generate an action when certain operational criteria are detected or identified. In other words when information provided by the feed s correlates with operational data the trigger causes an action to be taken. Example triggers are set forth below. It will be appreciated from however that the triggering patterns may relate some of all of the data associated with crowd volumes facial recognition detection and correspondingly inferred sentiment social media inputs and correspondingly inferred sentiment etc.

Actions are an extensible set of activities that are invoked by the trigger system . The actions include an action manager which can actively manage the lifecycle of actions and aspects of automated or manual control e.g. reprioritization intervention etc. over live or queued actions. Based on a trigger certain actions may be instigated to remedy or mitigate potential problems. They can be operational e.g. increase staffing levels marketing related e.g. provided complimentary drink samples etc. Thus actions may be simple or complex and may involve manual and or automatic activities that are executed as a result of a trigger identifying a set of patterns. Once a trigger initiates an action the action may be registered within the action manager e.g. in a suitable store thereof .

In certain example embodiments actions may include metadata and a body or payload. The metadata may provide a high level or generic descriptor of the action that the action manager can use e.g. as a reference. The action body may define the set of instructions that the specific action is designed to take. The action body may use a mix of data from a variety of sources such as for example internal static values e.g. those defined when the action was created operational parameters values from the live feeds themselves values from the components within the trigger module values from any of the scenarios within the trigger module discussed in greater detail below and or the like.

As another example the action manager could additionally or alternatively automatically stop one action when a new action of the same type and zone but greater severity has been received. The following example rule may be used in this regard 

Using this inbuilt capability of the action manager the management of actions can be automated and dynamic where they are overridden and or reprioritized. For example if an arriving plane or its crew is delayed it might not be advantageous to speed up the processing of passengers to the boarding area only to find that they cannot board the plane. As another example assume that the thermostat on the air conditioning system is faulty and is showing a high airport temperature by mistake. If this is the case the action dispatch airport catering staff to offer chilled water to passengers lining up in an area where the temperature is fine can be disabled. In certain example embodiments actions can be held in a priority queue for at least a threshold amount of time unless they are deemed so severe that they must be handled immediately. Holding elements in a priority queue enables a sort of implicit reprioritization and advantageous use of limited resources as higher priority elements are more likely to be dequeued e.g. at a regular dequeuing interval. Events can have time to live values and can be removed from the queue if their corresponding time to live values have been exceeded thereby potentially enabling a time period for a situation to resolve itself helping to ensure that no longer relevant problems are properly ignored etc.

The action manager may in certain example embodiments be configured to calculate metrics for use in the management of actions. The metrics to be used may be defined within the action. This allows the action to for example stop when the sum of people seen within a given zone exceeds a given value. It can also calculate a moving average of a given value over a given timeframe for example when the current happiness sentiment derived from the visual analysis system of the people in a given zone is greater than the 10 minute moving average of happiness for passengers in that zone . In certain example embodiments actions may refer to external processing logic bundles e.g. to make more complicated calculations easier to reference enable code reuse and provide for a more extensible system.

Action settings can be manually altered e.g. a higher priority may be assigned to a given action the attributes of a chosen action may be modified e.g. if the number of recommended airline agents for a crowd level of more than 70 is six but a backlog continues to occur the parameter can be adjusted to seven agents etc. In certain example embodiments a learning system may be implemented to help automatically adjust settings. Similar to the above actions may refer to external parameters e.g. to read set global parameters and provide for a more extensible system etc.

The physical assets used in certain example embodiments e.g. video surveillance cameras vehicle telemetry social media websites etc. are understood by those skilled in the art and tangible. In certain example embodiments the data from the sources is analyzed processed and managed so as to generate or trigger a recommended action. In this regard is a schematic view of a trigger system that may be used in connection with certain example embodiments. Feeds provide data to the system. In general and as noted above this data is classified as relating to patterns involving crowd volume related data facial recognition related data and social media related data

Crowd volume related data patterns in the airport example may refer to an operational impact based on of a certain number of passengers arriving at a given area in an airport. The pattern may use data based on video camera feeds e.g. to identify the number of people within any defined zone. The number may be quantified or estimated e.g. in accordance with thresholds such as high medium and low etc. Crowd volume scenarios are trigger scenarios that relate to aspects involving crowd volume and are discussed in greater detail below.

Facial recognition related data patterns may involve the interpretation of facial expressions from which customer sentiment e.g. happy sad anxious etc. may be inferred and other physical attributes of individuals e.g. age gender etc. . Facial recognition scenarios trigger scenarios that relate to aspects around facial and physical person attributes and are described in greater detail below. Certain example embodiments express these attributes for both individuals and the collective group visible to the camera or cameras . This advantageously allows for example for the ability to highlight any exceptions from the current norm e.g. when one individual is extremely unhappy but the rest of crowd is generally very happy possibly indicating a security situation or something worth investigating . This also advantageously allows for the construction of normal emotional conditions for times of day days of the week specific calendar events e.g. holiday travel business travel days national holidays etc. . Normal and or historic levels can further be used to look for deviations in the current real time context e.g. to highlight possible problems opportunities etc.

In this regard in certain example embodiments video feeds may be processed a video analysis unit that includes at least one processor and a memory and attempts to interpret each of the video feeds and generate a stream of information that seeks to quantify more qualitative e.g. emotionally characterized information from the video. The more qualitative data once quantified may be used to help describe an inferred emotional state of the person s being monitored. This may include indications of emotions gesticulations identification and or the like which may be processed at a binary or more granular e.g. fuzzy level. Facial recognition emotion sensing and or other software and or systems may be used in this regard and consideration may be given to facial expressions gesticulations etc. Example emotions graded on a fuzzy scale of 0 100 may include for instance 

As will become clearer from the more detailed description below some scenarios may take into account aggregated emotional states that combine one or more of the raw feeds from the visual analysis system. Moreover certain example embodiments may perform moving average calculations e.g. to derive dynamic baseline and or gradient values for such emotional data. In this sense a baseline may be thought of as a medium to long term moving average calculation that may be used to denote a normal state or value for any quantitative value and a gradient may be thought of as a measure of the rate by which a given value is changing e.g. positive for increasing values and negative for decreasing values . The baseline and or gradient values may in some instances make it possible to compare the normal states and the rate of change in these states e.g. for the average person a collection of people within a given area of a venue a collection of people within a given venue as a whole a collection of people across like areas of different venues a collection of people across different venues a collection of individuals having certain predefined characteristics e.g. demographic characteristics such as for example age gender experience time of travel travel season etc. and or others. For instance minor delays with an always on time carrier may be treated as more significant and thus potentially more worthy of proactive response than more severe delays with a carrier that is perceived to be late much of the time. Similarly major delays with an airport whose flights are always delayed e.g. the Atlanta Hartsfield Airport may be seen as less significant.

Aggregated states may include anxiety and negativity for example. Anxiety may for example be considered an aggregation of sadness agitation anger and shock. Weights may be attached to or otherwise associated with these factors such that for example the anxiety aggregation is calculated as Anxiety Sadness 1.0 Agitated 1.25 Anger 0.75 Shock 0.5 3.5 Similarly negativity may be considered an aggregation of sadness agitation anger and shock but with different weights as compared to anxiety. In this regard the negativity aggregation may be calculated as Negativity Sadness 1.5 Agitated 0.25 Anger 1.5 Shock 0.5 3.75

Common analytics measures such as baselines which may be percentages from 0 to 100 and gradients which may be percentages from 100 to 100 where 0 is a flat line for each metric may be set over a defined time window. The time windows may be set by default in certain example embodiments e.g. to 15 minutes and or customized for a particular context e.g. by an authorized context definer . Thus the baseline happy value may be defined as the 15 minute moving average of the happy value and the gradient happy value may be defined as the gradient of the 15 minute moving average of the happy value.

Social media related data patterns may involve actionable insight into the meaning of certain words and phrases and or other forms of media such as images sounds etc. used in social media outlets and websites such as Twitter Facebook Trip Advisor etc. Social media scenarios are trigger scenarios that relate to aspects around social media use cases and are described in greater detail below. It thus will be appreciated that social media posts message content etc. may be used to infer emotional attributes that may inform certain example embodiments. For instance the tone of messages may be rated automatically or manually e.g. using binary and or fuzzy ratings similar to as described above. Furthermore in certain example embodiments the mere fact that a message has been posted a call has been made to a customer service representative and or the like may be taken into account e.g. to help uncover further patterns in sentiment.

The three patterns described above provide both analytical capabilities and a host of trigger scenarios that can generate alerts from patterns detected within those analytics. This allows for very rich types of trigger scenarios that can blend data sources across different types of analytics. In addition auxiliary trigger scenarios may be hosted within the trigger system and may have access to data feeds that include for example raw incoming data e.g. from cameras social media etc. analytics contained within the three main patterns social media sentiment number of people within a zone etc. status and results of the scenarios contained within the three main patterns etc.

When alerts are generated by elements within the trigger system they are continually managed by the action manager that is hosted within the action component . The action manager may process stop override reprioritize and or take other actions with respect to the working set of actions. Changes to these actions may be passed back to the trigger system . This feedback loop then becomes an input stream feedback from action manager that is available to the scenarios within the trigger system . This may allow the historic activity of previous alerts to be used to trigger new types of scenarios etc.

Each of the scenarios can optionally expose a set of configurable parameters. These configurable parameters can be changed by an internal component e.g. a scenario an external source an authorized user an external computer application via a programmable API etc. to provide another source of consistent data. This may for example allow for simple on the fly manipulation of the behavior of the system. As an example the weights assigned to and or definitions of aggregated emotional states may be parameterized. Such parameters thus may be stored in a non transitory computer readable storage medium and they may be associated with one or more scenarios as appropriate.

As will be appreciated from the above alerts may be dispatched e.g. once generated by one of the scenarios within the trigger system .

An event based system would be desirable in processing the high volumes of event based data received from the wide range of sources and in responding thereto e.g. in real time . Certain example embodiments may use a database approach of receiving data storing it in a data store e.g. a database and at some interval later processing or querying the set of stored data. The interval in this two step load then query process may however sometimes be longer than the time required to respond e.g. in the context of a security breach long lines developing a flight delay involving large aircraft etc. Thus more traditional database approaches may be appropriate for the processing of some but not all of the incoming data at least in certain example embodiments.

In contrast with more traditional database approaches the event based approach of certain example embodiments may execute continually running filters for specific event patterns e.g. through the use of complex event processing CEP queries or the like. Data thus may be more immediately matched against a filter with little to no additional processing latency e.g. as the data in essence is flooded over the scenarios patterns in the event based system. The use of an event based system such as a CEP system or the like thus advantageously provides for massive performance scalability and low latency that is compatible with the example scenarios potentially involved herein. In certain example embodiments and as suggested above less critical information e.g. long term travel trends etc. may be processed using a more conventional database approach whereas more rapidly changing emotional data social media sentiment etc. may be fed through a CEP system apart from or together with output from the database queries.

One or more event busses may facilitate the receipt of events corresponding to elements in the respective feeds e.g. for subsequent processing by an event based processing engine. The input feed s may be merged and or considered with operational parameters . Furthermore in the example a CEP engine processes the incoming events received over the feeds in accordance with the scenarios. That is merged data is applied to and or considered with the relevant scenarios.

As alluded to above if an incident is detected based on the scenarios it may be added to a working queue of pending incidents for potential follow up. The detected incident also may be written to an incident log. The CEP engine and or another processor may calculate aggregated emotional data baseline and or gradient information etc. for use in connection with the evaluation of the scenarios. A database or other data store may associate individuals with their corresponding emotional data such as for example current scores baseline and or gradient data historical scores etc. Similarly a database or other data store may aggregate such data for groups of individuals as appropriate. In certain example embodiments this data may be updated at predefined intervals upon the receipt of a new event over an interface when a scenario is being run etc. In certain example embodiments this information may be calculated in real time and on an as needed basis.

The working queue may be implemented as a first in first out FIFO queue in certain example embodiments and as indicated above the working queue may be implemented as a priority queue in certain other example embodiments. With respect to the latter for example the scenarios may assign scores to the incidents. The scores may be based on potential degree of severity likelihood of there actually being a problem etc. A straightforward calculation involving the multiplication of severity and likelihood is one example scoring mechanism although others are of course possible in different example implementations. A scoring mechanism such as this may help the action manager prioritize between higher likelihood incidents with low potential impacts e.g. a long wait at customs when a Boeing 777 arrives and lower likelihood incidents with high potential impacts e.g. a security breach . The scoring may in certain example embodiments help to provide a normalized means of comparing potential incidents. Certain incidents may have a score that is sufficiently low as to allow them to be processed off line e.g. after the fact . The threshold for such scores may be defined by an authorized user. The scoring mechanism may be specified on a scenario by scenario basis for a collection of scenarios on a system wide basis etc. In certain example embodiments incidents in a pending queue may be maintained for later analysis of scenarios e.g. such that the appearance of a significant number of number of low impact alerts which individually might not be sufficient to trigger a significant action over a short time period is treated as sufficient to trigger some further action.

As indicated above the scenarios may in some instances assign timestamps or time to live values to incidents. This may be useful for example to help weed out past incidents that have been resolved in one form or another. The action manager may assist in assessing the time to live values and curating the working queue as appropriate. For instance the action manager may remove expired indictments based on comparisons between their time to live values and a current time.

In certain example embodiments the action manager may reorder the queue as scores are updated e.g. as more information becomes available as scenarios are potentially re run on data as time to live values near their expiry etc. For instance if a first incident is flagged for follow up and other incidents are determined to be related to it those related incidents might have their scores updated by the CEP engine or the like. The action manager thus may reorder the queue as appropriate.

The action manager also may work with the CEP engine to apply scenarios to pending incidents as appropriate. For instance the action manager may de queue the top pending incident and allow it to be subjected to further scenarios that determine whether an action actually should be taken. A second working queue and or a second queue analyzer may be provided to aid in these and or other respects. Information generated by these scenarios also may be logged e.g. in association with the related incident to which the given action scenario is being applied.

In certain example embodiments the scenarios may be re run and or the working queue may be re ordered via a CEP query that is executed each time a new incident is received a feed update is received and an internal timer event is triggered etc.

As mentioned above and as further elaborated on below in certain example embodiments pending incidents may be held within the working queue for at least a predetermined minimum amount of time e.g. unless a given received incident is to be further processed immediately e.g. has a high score above a predefined threshold in which case the incident may bypass the queue and be forwarded on for further processing and action as appropriate etc.

Although not shown in certain example embodiments may include a secure portal through which authorized individuals regulators and or others may access the system.

A set of example scenarios that may exist within the trigger system will now be provided. It will however be appreciated that some or all of the following and or other scenarios may be used in different example embodiments.

If the number of passengers in the zone is not greater than 160 and if excess carry on baggage is not present as determined in step S then a determination is made in step S as to whether the number of passengers in the zone is greater than 120 and whether there is at least a normal amount of carry on baggage. If not a determination is made in step S as to whether the number of passengers in the zone is greater than 80 and whether there is at least a normal amount of carry on baggage. If not then the process is ended. On the other hand if it is then step S requests that one additional security station be opened calculates the expected waiting time and displays it e.g. in minutes seconds or some other relevant unit . If the determination is made in step S that the number of passengers in the zone is greater than 120 and that there is at least a normal amount of carry on baggage then step S requests that two additional security stations be opened calculates the expected waiting time and displays it. Similarly if the determination is made in step S that the number of passengers in the zone is greater than 160 and that there is an excess amount of carry on baggage then step S requests that three additional security stations be opened calculates the expected waiting time and displays it. An additional check is made in step S to determine whether an alternative security zone is overloaded. If not the step S updates the display to direct passengers to the alternative security zone and tells staff that they are to direct passengers to the alternative security zone. On the other hand if it is then step S dispatches a manager to pacify the passengers fast track passengers on an as needed basis and dispatches promotional staff to provide giveaways or distribute free drinks etc.

Extensive actual data may be recorded to ascertain an average time for certain processes to be completed. This may include for example the average time taken to proceed from long term parking to a check in zone with a given number of cars arriving within a given time period the average time taken to proceed through check in and or security screening with a given number of passengers waiting in line ahead etc. Some or all this data may be computed in advance and stored to a data store e.g. a database that can be queried etc. . Once these parameters have been determined a set of conditions can be provided to the trigger scenarios to in turn determine whether an action should be triggered. If an action is triggered the impacts of such actions also can be measured and with sufficient actual data an appropriate level of action e.g. number of shuttle buses number of agents number of security personnel etc. can be prescribed e.g. to help deal with like future events.

In this way as system users observe and or as the system itself observes the outcomes of the actions they can learn from them and measure their effectiveness because they will receive feedback from the action manager. This feedback can be used to modify future behavior e.g. if a given action in a given zone is cancelled prescribe more less ameliorative behavior prescribe ameliorative behavior for longer shorter time periods etc. Over time the trigger scenarios themselves can be updated automatically automatically flagged for suggested manual updating etc.

The example facial recognition scenarios in this section build on the prior actions as the severity of the situation escalates. The example trigger uses a scoring system explained in more detail below to rate the information provided with combinations of increasing actions based on the facial recognition feed and rating including providing information on a monitor at the security zone as to estimated waiting time and alternative security area recommendations. Alternative actions depending on the severity of the facial recognition rating in this example include providing cool drinking water sending a clown to entertain younger passengers increasing staffing levels providing giveaways and associated store information and helping with information management e.g. in order to make a personal appearance to mitigate negative sentiment and investigate further potential necessary or desirable actions e.g. fast tracking certain passengers to the front of the queue etc. . Although a set of cumulative scenarios are provided it will be appreciated that non overlapping and or non cumulative scenarios may be provided in different example embodiments. In other words the scenarios need not be related to one another in different example embodiments.

If passengers in this area are increasingly unhappy then calculate and display an estimated waiting time allowing them to do something else rather than remain in zone.

If the unhappiness increases then update the display and if there is capacity in another zone direct passengers to that new zone. Also contact security personnel to let them know to expect an additional surge of passengers.

If the unhappiness increases further and the temperature is high then provide drinking water if children comprise a significant portion of the crowd then also request some entertainment to occupy the crowd.

If the unhappiness increases further and there are identifiable segments within the audience then issue various retail offers to them 

It will be appreciated that inheritance may be used rather than repeating code from lower level scenarios.

Emotional data may be scored in any suitable manner e.g. based on indicia gathered from surveillance cameras. In certain example embodiments the facial recognition system may deliver a set of enumerations e.g. low medium and high for each emotion in a predefined list of emotions including for example anger agitation sadness etc. . Certain example embodiments may use a look up mechanism to convert these enumerations into percentage values so that calculations can be performed on them. An example facial recognition scoring system look up table that may be used in connection with certain example embodiments is as follows 

It will be appreciated that other emotions may be specified in addition to or in place of some or all of these emotions. It also will be appreciated that complex emotion types may be based on one or more underlying simple emotion types. Complex emotions types may be scored as combinations of potentially weighted simple emotions.

The scenarios described above may draw from such a table where a combination of facial attributes first would be rated on a scale of low to high and then given a score e.g. 10 or 20 depending on the relevant weighting of that particular facial expression. As such if someone were showing a low level of anger 20 a high level of frowning 30 and a medium level of shaking head 30 the score would add up to 70 and this might depending on the score in the previous period lead to an action level 4 or 5 according to the pseudo code extracts shown above.

As is the case in with the example scenarios described above the definition of when any given facial expression is defined as low medium or high matters. Likewise the scoring examples shown here as 10 or 20 for low are important in prescribing the appropriate level of action if so referenced by the related scenario.

As described below historical data may be used to ascertain the best scoring system. It will be appreciated that the scoring system may be able to learn as new data is generated. For example certain times of the day may require or benefit from a different scoring approach compared to others. Early in the morning people may be more likely to be agitated based on pressure to make it to meetings whereas late in the evening people may be too tired to communicate concerns using facial expressions. Such variations may also be factored into the scoring approaches. In this vein it will be appreciated that different look up tables and or other mechanisms may be specified by the scenarios themselves in certain example embodiments. For example eye rubbing in an early morning context might be treated as ordinary drowsiness and thus not scored whereas eye rubbing in the middle of the afternoon might be treated as sadness because it is more likely to be correlated with crying and scored appropriately .

Social media scenarios may utilize a scoring system similar to those used by the facial recognition scenarios. Here it may be possible to replace facial expressions like Anger Agitation etc. with an extensible lexicon of multi language keywords e.g. Frustrated Sucks WastingTime WaitingInLine LackofStaff SoSlow etc. . The frequency of the appearance of such keywords can then be used to provide a differentiated scoring approach. For example if the word Frustrated appears once then the score may be 20 if it appears twice then the rating may be 30 and with three or more appearances the score may be high and equate to 40 . An example social media scoring table that works like the example facial recognition scoring system look up table described above and that may be used in connection with certain example embodiments is as follows 

In addition to the lexicon language specific grammar processing may be provided e.g. to apply modifiers to these scores. The grammar logic may control for aspects such as double negatives which could sometimes have the highest impact of specific words used.

In this regard is a block diagram of a social media sentiment analysis tool that may be used in connection with certain example embodiments. The component receives text strings potentially in any language from the social media feeds. A lexicon tokenizer annotates that string and each identifiable keyword that has some sentiment attached to it e.g. those keywords that have entries within the keyword scoring table is highlighted with its raw score e.g. as specified in the table . The annotated string is passed to the grammar analyzer which includes or references language specific grammar rules that remove and adjust sentiment attributes for the keywords due to use of negative keywords e.g. not good which should have a negative sentiment double negatives e.g. not bad which should have a positive sentiment etc. The raw scores derived from the keyword scores e.g. retrieved from the table and the modifications made by the grammar analyzer are aggregated by the scoring module to deliver a combined single sentiment value for that incoming text string . This scored string may be used by scenarios that can look for other specific keywords in that string combine them to form a calculated sentiment etc.

For both facial recognition and social media scenarios the scoring systems can be expanded to include positive facial reactions e.g. happy laughing relaxed etc. positive keywords Great Fast Happy Excited etc. and or the like. In a similar way these facial expressions and keywords can be rated using a scoring system and actions can be derived accordingly.

In the case of happiness and joy and positive keywords the operational action chosen may be do nothing or even to reduce staffing levels and reallocate to areas where reactions are more sensitive negative even if queues are longer and staffing levels are lower. Indeed a business might make a decision that as long as the sentiment is positive it might still be wise to react in this way. Similarly the detection of positive sentiment might be seen as presenting a good opportunity for pushing real time product promotions e.g. reaching out to potential customers when their moods are better and thus their propensity to spend money is higher.

It is also feasible that fully different reactions may be observed among members the same crowd. This situation adds a level of complexity when prescribing actions especially in extreme scenarios e.g. when half the crowd is very angry and half the crowd is very happy . To derive the most suitable reaction the action in such situations could simply be to dispatch an agent to investigate why the extreme facial and social media reactions are occurring.

Auxiliary trigger scenarios may in certain example instances utilize the capabilities of one or more of the trigger components e.g. the social Media crowd volume and or facial recognition components or their scenarios discussed above. Several example purposes are provided but it will be appreciated that auxiliary trigger scenarios may use these and or other data feeds for similar or different purposes in different example embodiments.

Real time promotions may be distributed for example during a passenger situation that otherwise could be problematic e.g. where there is a known extended waiting period . Such promotions may be a part of the solution or at least handling of the situation. Furthermore passengers may be provided with as much information as possible which could help assist them and improve their experiences. The strategy of providing both promotions and information can be helpful in avoiding increased frustration that otherwise might result if retail offers alone were delivered and interpreted as a ploy to distract the customers. The following pseudo code represents one possible scenario that may implemented in this regard 

Special actions can be defined in case there is a crisis. A crisis at an airport stadium amusement park museum train station etc. could include events such as for example a terrorist threat a gunman at large a fire other disasters e.g. rarer disasters such as human crush e.g. Hillsborough Stadium 1989 etc. In the case of a crisis personal safety may be made to take priority over operational efficiencies.

Once a crisis situation has been identified its resolution may be prioritized and resulting actions may replace those actions that would normally be instigated in the interest of usual operational procedures. Crisis management procedures may include for example shutting down gates turnstiles etc. in and around the area of concern triggering alarm systems activating sprinkler system etc. notifying top management and contacting security services emergency services fire service ambulance police etc. notifying local stations operational resources e.g. staff to aid in evacuation as necessary providing information and comfort to those most directly affected by the disaster in order to calm down crowds in case of panic or mass confusion identifying when ramifications of the crisis have been dealt with and returning to normal procedures e.g. then and only then in some instances and or taking other actions as appropriate.

Actions taken as the result of a special situation triggered by a crisis scenario may be immediately sent to the action component and the action manager within it. Here the actions may cover the relevant zones and have sufficient priority to overwrite or at least move ahead of any other actions in play at the current time. For example it could be desirable to override any promotional offers shown on display boards and instead display emergency exit details.

Using the camera surveillance and social media analytics to recognize a conflict crisis situation by detecting extreme levels of distress among customers e.g. airport or railway users visitors to a stadium museum attendees etc. including panic or deep concern in life threatening situations could lead to the earlier recognition of the disaster than otherwise might be possible under normal circumstances e.g. where one must wait for a bona fide report from an individual that might need to be verified etc. . Such detection scenarios may correlate any one or more of these and or other analytics to detect sophisticated crisis situations a large surge of people moving into an area that is normally not populated a significant increase in the average speed of passengers as they process through the airport suggesting panic movement a sudden increase in noise e.g. bangs screams etc. in an area zone a sudden spike in negative physical facial sentiment across a crowd a significant spike in negative sentiment across social media etc.

The immediate recognition of such a potential crisis helps ensure that assistance can be delivered and that the overall resolution can be found e.g. sooner than might otherwise be possible. In some instances if noticed soon enough the severity of the crisis situation can be mitigated e.g. notification of a fire and the subsequent involvement of fire services and activation of sprinklers can help contain the problem . Limiting the severity of any disaster and resolving the crisis sooner e.g. through the combined correlation of detected complex events in real time e.g. surge in movement speed sentiment etc. all over the same small time window is clearly advantageous to customers and for operational reasons.

To illustrate how actions relating to personal notification of service disruption can take place it is useful to consider a hypothetical situation involving train delays at Paddington Station in London. If there is a significant delay due to equipment or machine failure multiple trains may be delayed e.g. by an hour or more. In this scenario there are a number of problems apart from the frustration of passengers being delayed. For instance platform areas may become overcrowded which can cause obstructions and possibly could be hazardous potentially leading to the risk of a passenger or passengers toppling into the tracks . Station facilities and services also may become overloaded by the higher than normal load of waiting passengers.

By systematically notifying passengers of such delays the above mentioned and or other problems can be mitigated. Such notification can be provided by way of short message service SMS email for those passengers with smart phones automated phone calls etc. The SMS email or other notification can be triggered using any suitable method. For instance such notifications may be sent 1 as soon as the equipment or machine failure and resulting delays have been identified by train operators 2 once crowds e.g. waiting passengers gathering at stations have formed e.g. as detected by camera surveillance systems that recognize significantly increased number of people waiting heightened levels of frustration in the facial expressions of the waiting passengers etc. and or 3 based on a drastic increase in the negative sentiment at the station detected by means of the analysis of social media feeds and or the like.

These notifications can include some or all of the following and or other information information informing the passenger of the delay and providing an explanation e.g. a source of the problem providing new arrival and or departure time s which may be repeated as estimates are updated validated and become more accurate recommending alternative ways to use time while waiting such as at coffee shop in a business lounge if available etc. or in case a passenger has been informed prior to arriving at the station suggesting delaying arrival to the station offering various forms of remedy to pacify the customer s frustration ranging from a mere apology to travel ticket discounts or other offers etc. There are many possible benefits of providing such information including for example enhanced passenger perception through individually tailored customer service eased congestion at the station more productive use of passenger s time passenger customer retention and less volumes of passenger complaints to process increased revenues through promotional product conversions etc.

Using the example of an airport as mentioned above there are a number of issues that might arise in the case of a severe delay e.g. of one hour or more . And as outlined above these issues are not necessarily limited to the passengers directly affected but instead the negative signals from the frustrated customers and the crowds caused by the waiting passengers can lead to further issues including for example general obstruction of walkways difficulties accessing various facilities at the airport etc. Furthermore in cases where passengers become irritated tempers are more likely to flare and any number of escalations can lead to agitation among passengers with airline staff with airport staff etc. Under some circumstances conflicts or even minor acts of violence could occur which in turn could necessitate security services intervention police involvement and or the like all adding to the already existing problem of operational inefficiencies. All of this may cause general frustration in passengers leading to negative customer experiences something which service providers would want to avoid in order to avoid discouraging repeat business etc.

It may be possible to avoid such unpleasantness and instead offer a more pleasant customer experience in some instances e.g. if affected passengers can be redirected to waiting facilities a lounge or the like. The following and or other services can be offered at such a facility beverages and food either for free or for a fee restroom facilities Internet and or other business related services and or equipment travel information e.g. which gate to proceed to and how long it takes to walk there expected time of departure updated frequently alternative methods of transport and for example in the case of domestic or short haul international flights this could be a recommendation to use rental cars or trains potentially made in cooperation with the operators of these services etc. airline and or airport special offers and promotion e.g. as a direct way to claw back costs of running the lounge facility and or the like. This information can be provided both via overhead screens PA systems through airport and or airline staff in the area where the issue is manifesting itself and or via staff attending to the users of the facilities etc. The technique and point at which delayed passengers may be redirected to such waiting area facilities may be similar to the approach discussed above at least in certain example instances.

Advantageously the recommended action resulting from the recognition of passenger or generally customer emotion and sentiment may seek to improve customers perceptions and experiences of a given service. It may in some instances be possible to turn a negative situation e.g. severe delays and prolonged waiting times that normally cause customer frustration into a positive scenario whereby customers find themselves in a pleasant environment with useful information adequate facilities and good services potentially even somewhat akin to VIP treatment . Thus it is possible to achieve the above described and or other benefits with the addition of the potential for revenue enhancement by the airline or airport operator.

The ability to enable timely provision of special services in a case of severe delays or the like can be a differentiator for a service or product provider.

As People Carriers e.g. shuttle buses train cars conveyer belts etc. found in airports and similar locations that help ferry passengers between buildings become more crowded this can cause discomfort or even panic for its users. It thus may be helpful to have triggering scenarios that consider overcrowded people carriers and emotional status sentiment matrix es .

In this regard by using camera surveillance a crowded vs. agitation matrix could be designed. It may learn from correlating extreme passenger user overload e.g. as determined via a camera feed and potential emotional sentiment recognition. The latter can be ascertained by means of surveillance camera feed e.g. facial recognition and social media as well as by conducting random surveys of customer having just used these services.

Assuming that severe overload could cause anything from mild discomfort to extreme agitation increased stress and even distress and ultimately panic it may be desirable to ensure that overload does not reach extreme levels. It thus would be desirable to achieve a suitable balance for operators of such services because on they will be interested in managing operational expenses while also not wanting to deter users from refusing to return for repeat business if stress levels discomfort and or feeling of disrespect are prevalent. By capturing actual data operators can allow capacity to reach a certain level before reacting to add capacity additional carriers reducing the use of carriers in place etc. thus avoiding undesirable scenarios that could lead to customer retention problems.

In case an individual intends to smuggle contraband or conceal weapons explosives or the like or intends to comment an act of a criminal nature a specific subset of facial expressions and body language may be expected. By using a highly sensitive camera surveillance system that can detect extreme levels of nervousness or unease by way of facial recognition and physical attributes e.g. fidgeting twitching sweating etc. an alarm or alert can be activated so that attention is drawn to the individual and security personnel or police can heighten the usual levels of scrutiny thus increasing the chances of identifying and thwarting potential perpetrators.

This system may be applicable when allowing access to arenas for large events large buildings in capital cities for emigration and immigration at borders in airports or train stations where there is a reduced expectation of privacy etc. It can also be extended to the inside of a bank helping to potentially preempt robberies and increasing the chances of addressing the risk proactively e.g. by locking down access to tellers setting off an alarm alerting security staff etc. .

Lessons from scenario analysis may help responsive enforcement and or monitoring officials understand and improve the more fully autonomous real time scenarios e.g. to continually add new more fully automated surveillance scenarios that take into account other emotional state and or other data feed information. Certain example embodiments may incorporate a learning mechanism and feed back data on the effectiveness of different scenarios e.g. to rate such scenarios in terms of accuracy suggest whether old scenarios should be removed suggest whether new scenarios should be added and potentially what data should be analyzed therein whether scenarios should be re weighted etc.

As indicated above certain example embodiments may be tied into security systems at the venue. Such integration may be used for example to shut down gates trigger fire alarms and or sprinklers call police etc. e.g. as a user defined response. Such integration also may enable certain users and or user types to have live look in privileges. For instance TSA pre screen customers may have a view of the number of people in line people who have boarding passes may be able to view people mover areas security personnel may be able to see all areas of a venue managers who manage a collection of stores may be able to see their stores and or areas adjacent to them etc.

It will be appreciated that certain example embodiments may incorporate emotional and or quantified subjective information from alternative sources such as for example information gained from surveys that users must complete before accessing Wi Fi surveys filled out voluntarily e.g. after being properly scored or otherwise normalized to account for self selection bias and or the like etc.

Although certain example embodiments are presented as providing a holistic approach e.g. an end to end system that in the airport context deals with situations from passenger pre arrival at a departure airport through passenger arrival at an arrival airport and possibly to a hotel etc. certain example embodiments may provide a more focused view. For instance in the airport context certain example embodiments may be directed to an airport an airline shops within an airport etc.

Although certain example embodiments have been described in connection with airports it will be appreciated that the example techniques set forth herein may be used in other contexts. For instance it might be desirable to consider quantified streams of emotional and or other more subjective streams in other large venues such as for example stadium amusement park museum train station etc. Scenario related operations may be performed in real time and or at later times e.g. as more data becomes available. For instance data from information sources may be provided synchronously and or asynchronously in different cases.

Although certain example embodiments are discussed in connection with real time functionality it will be appreciated that there may be some practical and or unavoidable delays in some instances. Thus real time functionality may be understood to include substantially real time functionality functionality that is as close to real time as possible functionality that is not intentionally delayed or only insignificantly delayed for some reason etc.

It will be appreciated that as used herein the terms system subsystem service engine module programmed logic circuitry and the like may be implemented as any suitable combination of software hardware firmware and or the like. It also will be appreciated that the storage locations herein may be any suitable combination of disk drive devices memory locations solid state drives CD ROMs DVDs tape backups storage area network SAN systems and or any other appropriate tangible non transitory computer readable storage medium. Cloud and or distributed storage e.g. using file sharing means for instance also may be used in certain example embodiments. It also will be appreciated that the techniques described herein may be accomplished by having at least one processor execute instructions that may be tangibly stored on a non transitory computer readable storage medium.

While the invention has been described in connection with what is presently considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiment it is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the disclosed embodiment but on the contrary is intended to cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

