---

title: Communication nodes and sensor devices configured to use power line communication signals, and related methods of operation
abstract: Methods of operating a communication node are provided. A method of operating a communication node may include transmitting a first power line communication signal from the communication node to a sensor device that is at or adjacent an electric grid device. The method may include receiving from the sensor device a second power line communication signal that is responsive to the first power line communication signal, at the communication node. Moreover, the method may include determining a distance between the communication node and the electric grid device by measuring an electrical parameter of the second power line communication signal, at the communication node. Related communication nodes are also described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09407324&OS=09407324&RS=09407324
owner: Duke Energy Corporation
number: 09407324
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140506
---
The present application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 919 993 filed on Dec. 23 2013 entitled Communication Nodes and Sensor Devices Configured to Use Power Line Communication Signals and Related Methods of Operation the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein in its entirety by reference. Moreover the present application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 264 757 filed on Apr. 29 2014 entitled Methods of Processing Data Corresponding to a Device that Corresponds to a Gas Water or Electric Grid and Related Devices and Computer Program Products the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.

An electric grid may include various electric grid devices which may be intelligent interconnected equipment that deliver monitor measure and or control the flow of electricity in a power delivery system. The electric grid may also include a telecommunications infrastructure for transporting and delivering information regarding the electric grid as well as analytics architecture and data management tools for managing optimizing the electric grid. Moreover a wide variety of electric grid customer owned assets which may consume store or produce electricity may be connected to the electric grid.

As an electric grid and various interconnected customer owned devices and electric grid devices in the electric grid become more complex it may be more difficult to meet electric utility customers demands regarding response times costs safety and reliability. For example an electric grid may reach diverse geographies customers and vendor technologies. Accordingly processing data and managing electric grid devices may be costly and time consuming.

It should be appreciated that this Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form the concepts being further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of this disclosure nor is it intended to limit the scope of the present inventive concepts.

Various embodiments of the present inventive concepts include a method of operating a communication node. The method may include transmitting a first power line communication signal from the communication node to a sensor device that is at or adjacent an electric grid device. The method may include receiving from the sensor device a second power line communication signal that is responsive to the first power line communication signal at the communication node. Moreover the method may include determining a distance between the communication node and the electric grid device by measuring an electrical parameter of the second power line communication signal at the communication node.

According to various embodiments transmitting the first power line communication signal may include transmitting the first power line communication signal using a Mid Voltage MV electric distribution network corresponding to voltages between about 4 000 Volts and about 69 000 Volts. Moreover receiving the second power line communication signal may include receiving the second power line communication signal using the Mid Voltage MV electric distribution network corresponding to voltages between about 4 000 Volts and about 69 000 Volts. In some embodiments the first power line communication signal may include a Power Line Carrier PLC signal or a Broadband over Power Lines BPL signal.

In various embodiments the method may include transmitting from the communication node to an electric utility head end system or a higher tier communication node a value representing the distance via a local area network or a Wide Area Network e.g. a cellular network Ethernet or a fiber network . Additionally or alternatively determining the distance between the communication node and the electric grid device by measuring the electrical parameter of second power line communication signal at the communication node may include determining the distance between the communication node and the electric grid device by measuring an impedance corresponding to the second power line communication signal at the communication node.

According to various embodiments the method may include determining a device type of the electric grid device by analyzing an identification component e.g. a frequency identification component or another identification component of the second power line communication signal at the communication node. Additionally or alternatively the method may include determining whether the electric grid device is electrically connected to an electric grid by analyzing an identification component of the second power line communication signal at the communication node. Moreover in some embodiments the method may include monitoring a health component of the electric grid device by analyzing an electrical signature and or an electrical parameter of the second power line communication signal at the communication node.

In various embodiments the sensor device may be a first sensor device and the electric grid device may be a first electric grid device. Moreover transmitting the first power line communication signal may include transmitting an unsolicited ping from the communication node to the first sensor device and to a second sensor device that is at or adjacent a second electric grid device. In some embodiments the distance may be a first distance and the electrical parameter may be a first electrical parameter. Moreover the method may include receiving from the second sensor device a third power line communication signal that is responsive to the unsolicited ping at the communication node and determining a second distance between the communication node and the second electric grid device by measuring a second electrical parameter of the third power line communication signal at the communication node.

A communication node according to various embodiments may include a power line communications interface configured to transmit a first power line communication signal from the communication node to a sensor device that is at or adjacent an electric grid device and to receive from the sensor device a second power line communication signal that is responsive to the first power line communication signal. Moreover the communication node may include a processor configured to determine a distance between the communication node and the electric grid device by measuring an electrical parameter of the second power line communication signal at the communication node. In some embodiments the communication node may include a polling device that includes at least one of the power line communications interface and the processor.

According to various embodiments the power line communications interface may be configured to transmit the first power line communication signal using a Mid Voltage MV electric distribution network corresponding to voltages between about 4 000 Volts and about 69 000 Volts and to receive the second power line communication signal using the Mid Voltage MV electric distribution network corresponding to voltages between about 4 000 Volts and about 69 000 Volts. In some embodiments the first power line communication signal may include a Power Line Carrier PLC signal or a Broadband over Power Lines BPL signal.

In various embodiments the communication node may include a network interface configured to transmit from the communication node to an electric utility head end system a value representing the distance via a local area network or a Wide Area Network e.g. a cellular network Ethernet or a fiber network . In some embodiments the electrical parameter may be an impedance and the processor may be configured to determine the distance between the communication node and the electric grid device by using the impedance of the second power line communication signal.

According to various embodiments the processor may be configured to determine a device type of the electric grid device by analyzing an identification component of the second power line communication signal. Additionally or alternatively the processor may be configured to determine whether the electric grid device is electrically connected to an electric grid by analyzing an identification component of the second power line communication signal. Moreover in some embodiments the processor may be configured to monitor a health component of the electric grid device by analyzing an electrical signature and or an electrical parameter of the second power line communication signal.

In various embodiments the sensor device may be a first sensor device and the electric grid device may be a first electric grid device. Moreover the power line communications interface may be configured to transmit the first power line communication signal as an unsolicited ping to the first sensor device and to a second sensor device that is at or adjacent a second electric grid device. In some embodiments the distance may be a first distance the electrical parameter may be a first electrical parameter the power line communications interface may be configured to receive from the second sensor device a third power line communication signal that is responsive to the unsolicited ping and the processor may be configured to determine a second distance between the communication node and the second electric grid device by measuring a second electrical parameter of the third power line communication signal.

A method of operating a sensor device that is at or adjacent an electric grid device according to various embodiments may include receiving from a communication node a first power line communication signal at the sensor device that is at or adjacent the electric grid device. The method may include transmitting a second power line communication signal from the sensor device to the communication node in response to receiving the first power line communication signal. Moreover the second power line communication signal may include an electrical parameter corresponding to a distance between the communication node and the electric grid device.

According to various embodiments receiving the first power line communication signal may include receiving the first power line communication signal using a Mid Voltage MV electric distribution network corresponding to voltages between about 4 000 Volts and about 69 000 Volts. Moreover transmitting the second power line communication signal may include transmitting the second power line communication signal using the Mid Voltage MV electric distribution network corresponding to voltages between about 4 000 Volts and about 69 000 Volts. In some embodiments the first power line communication signal may include a Power Line Carrier PLC signal or a Broadband over Power Lines BPL signal.

In various embodiments the electrical parameter corresponding to a distance between the communication node and the electric grid device may be an impedance corresponding to the second power line communication signal. Moreover the second power line communication signal may include an identification component corresponding to a device type of the electric grid device and transmitting the second power line communication signal may include transmitting the second power line communication signal including the identification component corresponding to the device type of the electric grid device from the sensor device to the communication node in response to receiving the first power line communication signal.

According to various embodiments the second power line communication signal may include an identification component corresponding to whether the electric grid device is electrically connected to an electric grid. Moreover transmitting the second power line communication signal may include transmitting the second power line communication signal including the identification component corresponding to whether the electric grid device is electrically connected to the electric grid from the sensor device to the communication node in response to receiving the first power line communication signal. Additionally or alternatively the second power line communication signal may include an electrical signature and or an electrical parameter corresponding to a health component of the electric grid device and transmitting the second power line communication signal may include transmitting the second power line communication signal including the electrical signature and or electrical parameter corresponding to the health component of the electric grid device from the sensor device to the communication node in response to receiving the first power line communication signal. Moreover in some embodiments the first power line communication signal may include an unsolicited ping transmitted by the communication node and receiving the first power line communication signal may include receiving from the communication node the unsolicited ping at the sensor device that is at or adjacent the electric grid device.

A sensor device at or adjacent an electric grid device according to various embodiments may include a power line communications interface configured to receive a first power line communication signal from a communication node. Moreover the power line communications interface of the sensor device may be configured to transmit from the sensor device to the communication node a second power line communication signal that is responsive to the first power line communication signal. The second power line communication signal may include an electrical parameter corresponding to a distance between the communication node and the electric grid device.

According to various embodiments the power line communications interface may be configured to receive the first power line communication signal using a Mid Voltage MV electric distribution network corresponding to voltages between about 4 000 Volts and about 69 000 Volts and to transmit the second power line communication signal using the Mid Voltage MV electric distribution network corresponding to voltages between about 4 000 Volts and about 69 000 Volts. In some embodiments the first power line communication signal may be a Power Line Carrier PLC signal or a Broadband over Power Lines BPL signal 

In various embodiments the electrical parameter corresponding to the distance between the communication node and the electric grid device may include an impedance corresponding to the second power line communication signal. Additionally or alternatively the second power line communication signal may include an identification component corresponding to a device type of the electric grid device and the power line communications interface may be configured to transmit from the sensor device to the communication node the second power line communication signal including the identification component corresponding to the device type of the electric grid device in response to receiving the first power line communication signal.

According to various embodiments the second power line communication signal may include an identification component corresponding to whether the electric grid device is electrically connected to an electric grid and the power line communications interface may be configured to transmit from the sensor device to the communication node the second power line communication signal including the identification component corresponding to whether the electric grid device is electrically connected to the electric grid in response to receiving the first power line communication signal. Additionally or alternatively the second power line communication signal may include an electrical signature and or an electrical parameter corresponding to a health component of the electric grid device and the power line communications interface may be configured to transmit from the sensor device to the communication node the second power line communication signal including the electrical signature and or electrical parameter corresponding to the health component of the electric grid device in response to receiving the first power line communication signal. Moreover in some embodiments the first power line communication signal may be an unsolicited ping transmitted by the communication node and the power line communications interface may be configured to receive from the communication node the unsolicited ping at the sensor device that is at or adjacent the electric grid device.

It is noted that aspects of the present inventive concepts described with respect to one embodiment may be incorporated in a different embodiment although not specifically described relative thereto. That is all embodiments and or features of any embodiment can be combined in any way and or combination. Applicants reserve the right to change any originally filed claim or file any new claim accordingly including the right to be able to amend any originally filed claim to depend from and or incorporate any feature of any other claim although not originally claimed in that manner. These and other objects and or aspects of the present inventive concepts are explained in detail below.

Specific example embodiments of the present inventive concepts now will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. The present inventive concepts may however be embodied in a variety of different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the present inventive concepts to those skilled in the art. In the drawings like designations refer to like elements. It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected coupled or responsive to another element it can be directly connected coupled or responsive to the other element or intervening elements may be present. Furthermore connected coupled or responsive as used herein may include wirelessly connected coupled or responsive.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the present inventive concepts. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless expressly stated otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms includes comprises including and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. The symbol is also used as a shorthand notation for and or. 

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which these inventive concepts belong. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and the present disclosure and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

It will also be understood that although the terms first and second may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another element. Thus a first element could be termed a second element and similarly a second element may be termed a first element without departing from the teachings of the present inventive concepts.

Example embodiments of the present inventive concepts may be embodied as nodes devices and methods. Accordingly example embodiments of the present inventive concepts may be embodied in hardware and or in software including firmware resident software micro code etc. . Furthermore example embodiments of the present inventive concepts may take the form of a computer program product comprising a non transitory computer usable or computer readable storage medium having computer usable or computer readable program code embodied in the medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples a nonexhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber and a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM . Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

Example embodiments of the present inventive concepts are described herein with reference to flowchart and or block diagram illustrations. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart and or block diagram illustrations and combinations of blocks in the flowchart and or block diagram illustrations may be implemented by computer program instructions and or hardware operations. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer a special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means and or circuits for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer usable or computer readable memory that may direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer usable or computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instructions that implement the functions specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

As an electric grid becomes more complex it may be more costly and difficult to determine what assets e.g. electric grid devices are electrically interconnected on the electric grid as well as to determine the health of such assets. Various embodiments described herein however may improve the situational awareness and health of assets. For example various embodiments described herein may determine an asset s identification distance health and or connectivity on an electric grid. As an example a Mid Voltage MV sonar technology may be used with a standards based modular communication platform of a communications node along with a power line communication technology to continually determine the electrical connectivity of grid assets. Moreover the MV sonar technology may monitor device performance behaviors and indicators of aging. Accordingly the MV sonar technology may augment an existing centralized Geospatial geographic Information System GIS by accurately identifying the location phase electrical connectivity and type of asset s on distribution lines with near real time responsiveness to dynamic changes on the grid.

Further value can be generated from a MV sonar technology by extracting waveform and asset operation information from a low cost sonar sensor to measure and monitor an asset s health signatures. Such data may be used for predictive trending analytics to improve optimize asset management through Condition Based Maintenance CBM and to reduce Mean Time To Failure MTTF . Additionally such capabilities may also improve reliability indices such as System Average Interruption Frequency Index SAIFI Customer Average Interruption Duration Index CAIDI etc. In addition to reliability and asset management benefits the MV sonar technology may generate operating cost savings and improvements in planning and engineering. For example when MV sonar technology is seamlessly integrated with a field message bus rather than a message bus at a utility data center and Supervisory Control And Data Acquisition SCADA operational systems e.g. Distribution Management System DMS Outage Management System OMS these savings may be captured and quantified. Moreover some embodiments of MV sonar technology described herein may enable control schemes that might otherwise not be feasible without such dynamic distributed asset identification and decision making that is closer to electric grid assets.

Referring now to a schematic illustration is provided of a communication node C in communication with at least one sensor device S. For example the communication node C may communicate with sensor devices S Sthat are at or adjacent respective electric grid devices E E. As an example the communication node C may communicate with the electric grid devices E Eusing Power Line Carrier PLC communications.

A sensor device S may be a low cost line device. Moreover it will be understood that respective sensor device S may be installed next to each field asset e.g. next to each electric grid device E . For example one sensor device S may be installed per capacitor bank regulator recloser line switch fuse and transformer. Each sensor device S may include a coupler e.g. an analog waveform coupler and may optionally include a battery. Moreover each sensor device S may require modest minimal or no firmware and may not include a built in Global Positioning System GPS . In some embodiments a sensor device S may provide identification tags based on each asset type and based on electrical connectivity status. In some embodiments a sensor device S may receive signals and transmit only solicited responses over power distribution lines above 4 000 Volts.

The electric grid devices E Emay each be an element of an electric grid and the communication node C may communicate with a head end system H of an electric utility data center via a communication network . The communication network may include one or more wireless or wired communication networks such as a local area network e.g. Ethernet or WiFi or a Wide Area Network e.g. a cellular network Ethernet or a fiber such as fiber optic network . Software of the head end system H may be installed on a back office server or microprocessor based controller. Moreover the software of the head end system H may aggregate and stitch together via triangulation each communication node C s polling device s view of impedance distance location and phasing of all assets of the electric grid . Accordingly the software of the head end system H may generate a full map of the electric devices circuits on the electric grid . In some embodiments the software of the head end system H may use triangulation and rules e.g. business rules to flag and resolve location and phase conflicts and or may integrate with an asset management system e.g. an asset management system of for asset health performance monitoring and tracking.

Referring still to the communication node C may transmit a PLC ping signal P. The communication node C may receive respective signals from the sensor devices S Sin response to the PLC ping signal P. The signals received from the sensor devices S Smay have respective impedances Z Z. The impedances Z Zmay be used to determine respective distances D Dbetween the electric grid devices E Eand the communication node C.

Referring now to a schematic illustration is provided of a sensor device S in communication with at least one communication node C according to various embodiments. For example the sensor device S may communicate with communication nodes C C. The sensor device S is at or adjacent a corresponding electric grid device E and may receive PLC ping signals P Pfrom the communication nodes C C respectively. In response the sensor device S may transmit signals having respective impedances Z Z. The impedances Z Zmay be used to determine respective distances between the communication nodes C Cand the electric grid device E. By using at least three such distance calculations the position of the electric grid device E may be determined triangulated. In other words the same sensor device S may transmit signals that are received and processed at respective communication nodes C to determine respective distances D between the electric grid device E and the communication nodes C where the multiple distances D may be used at one or more head end systems H to triangulate the location of the electric grid device E.

Referring still to multiple tiers of communication nodes C may be provided. For example the communication nodes C Cmay be lowest tier edge communication nodes whereas a higher tier communication node Cmay be between the communication nodes C Cand the electric utility data center . In some embodiments the higher tier communication node Cmay manage the communication nodes C C. The higher tier communication node Cmay communicate with the communication nodes C Cvia a communication network which may be one of the types of networks described with respect to the communication network of . Moreover it will be understood that the higher tier communication node Cmay communicate with the electric utility data center via a communication network such as the communication network of .

Referring now to a block diagram is provided of a communication node C of according to various embodiments. The communication node C may be the communication node C of or one of the communication nodes C Cof and may include a processor a network interface and a memory . The processor of the communication node C may be coupled to the network interface . The processor may be configured to communicate with sensor devices S electric grid devices E other communication nodes C and or the electric utility data center via the network interface .

For example the network interface may include one or more wireless interfaces e.g. 3G LTE other cellular WiFi Global Positioning System GPS interfaces etc. and one or more physical interfaces e.g. Ethernet serial Universal Serial Bus USB interfaces etc. . Moreover the network interface may optionally include one or more power line interfaces e.g. Low Voltage LV or Mid Voltage MV PLC . Accordingly as one example the communication node C may be configured to communicate with one or more sensor devices S via the power line interface s and may be configured to communicate with the communication networks via the wireless interface s and or the wired physical interface s . Additionally the wireless interface s may optionally include 900 MHz radio.

Referring still to the memory may be coupled to the processor . The memory may also store instructions algorithms used by the processor . The communication node C may include core hardware components such as a power supply 400 MHz or higher speed processor s and 256 Megabytes MB or more of RAM. Such modest core hardware components in contrast with those of servers super computers etc. demonstrate the considerable capabilities of a distributed intelligence smart grid system to solve complex optimization problems.

The communication node C may include core applications such as CPU memory OS management applications port device drivers router Internet Protocol IP services network management services basic protocol support SCADA custom Application Programming Interface API applications and device security services. Moreover the communication node C may include virtual applications such as a virtual machine e.g. a Java Virtual Machine message bus es message broker s protocol adapters mini SCADA open standards API and third party applications e.g. security analytics applications . The core applications may use such software as C Linux and the virtual applications may use such software as Java Linux.

Because the communication node C of is interoperable with other communication nodes C and includes a modular hardware software platform the use of the communication nodes C allows a smart electric grid e.g. the grid of to be deployed gradually as economics and technology allow. For example a communication node C can be added when a meter is added to the grid or when a street light is added to the grid .

Referring now to a block diagram is provided that illustrates details of an example processor and memory of a communication node C that may be used in accordance with various embodiments. The processor communicates with the memory via an address data bus . The processor may be for example a commercially available or custom microprocessor. Moreover it will be understood that the processor may include multiple processors. The memory is representative of the overall hierarchy of memory devices containing the software and data used to implement various functions of a communication node C as described herein. The memory may include but is not limited to the following types of devices cache ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM flash Static RAM SRAM and Dynamic RAM DRAM .

As shown in the memory may hold various categories of software and data such as an operating system . The operating system controls operations of a communication node C. In particular the operating system may manage the resources of the communication node C and may coordinate execution of various programs by the processor .

Referring now to a block diagram is provided of a communication node C of that includes a polling device according to various embodiments. The polling device may include the power line interface s of a processor and or a memory. Accordingly the polling device may be added to installed in an existing communication node C. For example the polling device may be added to installed in an existing communication node C that otherwise lacks the power line interface s or waveform analysis functionality.

In some embodiments the polling device may be a data collector device installed inside a communication node C. In particular the polling device may be a low cost embedded module and may be powered by the communication node C e.g. at 120 240 Volts . The polling device may require modest minimal firmware to allow local data access of MV sonar sensor information to other applications residing on the communication node C. Moreover the polling device may transmit unsolicited pings P to sensor devices S e.g. MV sonar sensors and may receive solicited messages from the sensor devices S using a power line communication technology such as Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM based Power Line Carrier or Broadband over Power Line. The power line communications described herein may in some embodiments be long range power line communications that can travel in excess of one mile. In some embodiments the polling device may measure an impedance Z to determine a distance from an asset e.g. an electric grid device E .

Moreover the polling device may use a GPS inside a communication node C to determine a geo spatial location of the communication node C which can be used with a value of distance D to determine the location of an electric grid device E. In some embodiments the polling device may include an integrated Analog to Digital A D converter to measure and record waveform signatures e.g. current voltage etc. . In some embodiments the polling device may use include rules e.g. business rules to configure ping P frequencies to occur a during regular intervals b after asset operation or c in the event of a power failure outage. Moreover the polling device may include one or more object models that are compatible with a field message bus and can be mapped to SCADA operational systems.

Referring now to a block diagram is provided of a sensor device S of according to various embodiments. The sensor device S may include a processor one or more power line interfaces and a memory . The power line interface s of the sensor device S may be configured to receive power line communication signals e.g. PLC pings P from communication nodes C and to transmit responsive power line communication signals to the communication nodes C using the processor .

Referring again to an electric grid device E may be for example an electric utility meter a transformer a light e.g. a street light an electric grid control device an electric grid protection device a recloser a line sensor a weather sensor an Advanced Metering Infrastructure AMI device an analog or digital sensor connected to an electric utility asset an electric generator an electric turbine an electric boiler an electric vehicle a home appliance a battery storage device a capacitor device a solar power device a smart generation device an intelligent switching device an emission monitoring device or a voltage regulator. It will be understood that an electric grid device E described herein shall refer to any one of the electric grid devices E Edescribed herein. Moreover it will be understood that more than two electric grid devices E may be included in an electric grid . For example dozens hundreds thousands or more electric grid devices E may be included in the electric grid .

Similarly a communication node C shall refer to any one of the communication nodes C Cdescribed herein and dozens hundreds thousands or more communication nodes C may be included. Moreover a sensor device S shall refer to any one of the sensor devices S Sdescribed herein and dozens hundreds thousands or more sensor devices S may be included at or adjacent corresponding electric grid devices E. It will be understood that a sensor device S that is at an electric grid device E may be inside the electric grid device E or may be on the outside of the electric grid device E. Moreover a sensor device S that is adjacent an electric grid device E may be spaced apart from the electric grid device E but close enough to the electric grid device E to represent the position of the electric grid device E on the electric grid . Additionally it will be understood that more than one head end system H may be included.

Referring now to flowcharts are provided illustrating operations of a communication node C of according to various embodiments. Referring to operations of the communication node C may include transmitting Block a first power line communication signal P from the communication node C to a sensor device S that is at or adjacent an electric grid device E. The operations may include receiving Block from the sensor device S a second power line communication signal that is responsive to the first power line communication signal P at the communication node C. Moreover the operations may include determining Block a distance D between the communication node C and the electric grid device E by measuring an electrical parameter of the second power line communication signal at the communication node C.

In some embodiments the communication node C may measure the full waveform rather than just the magnitude of the second power line communication signal that is received from the sensor device S. For example a power line carrier data collector in the communication node C may sample the full waveform of the second power line communication signal.

Referring to operations of transmitting Block the first power line communication signal P may include transmitting Block B the first power line communication signal P using a Mid Voltage MV electric distribution network corresponding to voltages between about 4 000 Volts and about 69 000 Volts. Moreover operations of receiving Block the second power line communication signal may include receiving Block B the second power line communication signal using the Mid Voltage MV electric distribution network corresponding to voltages between about 4 000 Volts and about 69 000 Volts.

Referring to it will be understood that the first power line communication signal P may be a Power Line Carrier PLC signal or a Broadband over Power Lines BPL signal Block C . Accordingly the PLC pings P illustrated in may alternatively be BPL pings. Moreover referring again to which is a modification of the second power line communication signal may be a PLC signal or a BPL signal Blocks C C .

Referring to the operations of may also include transmitting Block from the communication node C to an electric utility head end system H or to a higher tier communication node C a value representing the distance D via the communication network e.g. a local area network or a Wide Area Network . The communication node C may also transmit its own GPS location data to the electric utility head end system H. Accordingly the electric utility head end system H may use the communication node C s GPS location data and the value representing the distance D to determine the position of the electric grid device E. For example if the electric utility head end system H has GPS location data and values representing distances D from at least three communication nodes C then the electric utility head end system H may triangulate the position of the electric grid device E.

Referring to operations of determining Block the distance D between the communication node C and the electric grid device E by measuring the electrical parameter of second power line communication signal at the communication node may include determining Block E the distance D between the communication node C and the electric grid device E by measuring an impedance Z corresponding to the second power line communication signal at the communication node C. For example the impedance Z may be the impedance experienced by the second power line communication signal when traveling the distance D to the communication node C. Accordingly the impedance Z may be determined at the communication node C in the field i.e. closer to the electric grid device E rather than at a more central location such as the electric utility data center or even a substation . Moreover the measurement determination of the impedance Z at the communication node C may be performed using a second PLC signal from the sensor device S that is responsive to a first PLC signal from the communication node C.

Referring to the operations of may also include determining Block F a device type of the electric grid device E by analyzing an identification component e.g. an identification signature of the second power line communication signal at the communication node C. An identification component may be for example a waveform or other electronic signature particular to a device s operation. As another non limiting example an identification component may be a pre determined frequency tone characteristic used to identify an asset device Accordingly the communication node C may determine both a location and a device type of the electric grid device E using the second power line communication signal. Additionally or alternatively the operations may include determining Block F whether the electric grid device E is electrically connected to an electric grid by analyzing an identification component of the second power line communication signal at the communication node C.

Referring to the operations of may also include monitoring Block G a health component of the electric grid device E by analyzing an electrical signature e.g. a health signature and or an electrical parameter of the second power line communication signal at the communication node C. For example the communication node C may perform waveform analysis of the second power line communication signal to determine asset health. As an example the communication node C may perform waveform analysis to evaluate performance characteristics of the electric grid device E behavioral characteristics of the electric grid device E and or indicators of aging of the electric grid device E.

Referring to it will be understood that transmitting Block the first power line communication signal P may include transmitting Block H an unsolicited ping P from the communication node C to a first sensor device Sthat is at or adjacent a first electric grid device Eand to a second sensor device Sthat is at or adjacent a second electric grid device E. In other words the ping P may be transmitted from the communication node C to the first and second sensor devices S Swithout any requests prompting by either of the first and second sensor devices S S. Accordingly in some embodiments the communication node C may periodically transmit the unsolicited ping P after a pre determined time interval irrespective of whether the communication node C has received signals from the first and second sensor devices S S. The unsolicited ping P may therefore be helpful in locating recently added or recently relocated electric grid devices E.

Moreover referring still to the communication node C may receive Block H from the second sensor device Sa third power line communication signal that is responsive to the unsolicited ping P in addition to receiving from the first sensor device Sthe second power line communication signal which is also responsive to the unsolicited ping P . Operations of the communication node C may also include determining Block H first and second distances D Dbetween the communication node C and the first and second electric grid devices E E respectively by measuring first and second electrical parameters of the second and third power line communication signals respectively.

It will be understood that a communication node of may be configured to perform the operations illustrated in . For example a power line communications interface of the communication node C may be configured to perform the transmit and receive operations illustrated in . Moreover a processor and or a processor of the communication node C may be configured to perform the measurements determinations analyses illustrated in .

Referring now to flowcharts are provided illustrating operations of a sensor device S of according to various embodiments. Referring to operations of a sensor device S that is at or adjacent an electric grid device E may include receiving Block from a communication node C a first power line communication signal P at the sensor device S that is at or adjacent the electric grid device E. Moreover the operations may include transmitting Block a second power line communication signal from the sensor device S to the communication node C in response to receiving the first power line communication signal P. The second power line communication signal may include an electrical parameter e.g. characteristic corresponding to a distance D between the communication node C and the electric grid device E.

Referring to operations of receiving Block the first power line communication signal P may include receiving Block B the first power line communication signal P using a Mid Voltage MV electric distribution network corresponding to voltages between about 4 000 Volts and about 69 000 Volts. Moreover operations of transmitting Block the second power line communication signal may include transmitting Block B the second power line communication signal using the Mid Voltage MV electric distribution network corresponding to voltages between about 4 000 Volts and about 69 000 Volts.

Referring to which is a modification of it will be understood that the first power line communication signal P may include a Power Line Carrier PLC signal or a Broadband over Power Lines BPL signal Block C . Moreover the second power line communication signal may also include a PLC signal or a BPL signal Block C .

Referring to which is a modification of the electrical parameter e.g. characteristic corresponding to a distance D between the communication node C and the electric grid device E may be an impedance Z corresponding to the second power line communication signal Block D .

Referring to which is a modification of the second power line communication signal may include an identification component e.g. an identification signature corresponding to a device type of the electric grid device E in some embodiments. Moreover transmitting Block the second power line communication signal may include transmitting Block E the second power line communication signal including the identification component corresponding to the device type of the electric grid device E from the sensor device S to the communication node C in response to receiving the first power line communication signal P. In other words the sensor device S may return a particular tone or answer based on the grid asset it is installed at next to.

Additionally or alternatively referring to still to the second power line communication signal may include an identification component corresponding to whether the electric grid device E is electrically connected to an electric grid . Moreover transmitting Block the second power line communication signal may include transmitting Block E the second power line communication signal including the identification component corresponding to whether the electric grid device E is electrically connected to the electric grid from the sensor device S to the communication node C in response to receiving the first power line communication signal P.

Referring to which is a modification of the second power line communication signal may include an electrical signature e.g. health signature and or an electrical parameter corresponding to a health component of the electric grid device E. Moreover transmitting Block the second power line communication signal may include transmitting Block F the second power line communication signal including the electrical signature and or electrical parameter corresponding to the health component of the electric grid device E from the sensor device S to the communication node C in response to receiving the first power line communication signal P.

Referring to which is a modification of the first power line communication signal P may include an unsolicited ping P transmitted by the communication node C. Moreover receiving Block the first power line communication signal P may include receiving Block G from the communication node C the unsolicited ping P at the sensor device S that is at or adjacent the electric grid device E.

It will be understood that a sensor device S of may be configured to perform the operations illustrated in . For example a power line communications interface of the sensor device S may be configured to perform the transmit and receive operations illustrated in .

According to various embodiments described herein a communication node C may send an MV PLC signal to a sonar sensor e.g. a sensor device S . The communication node C may then analyze a responsive signal that it receives to determine for example a an impedance measurement b a signature regarding device asset e.g. an electric grid device E health c a signature regarding a device asset type and or d a signature regarding whether the device asset is electrically connected to a grid. Because having a built in GPS at the device asset may be cost prohibitive the communication node C may perform the impedance measurement to determine a distance between the device asset and the communication node C. Moreover software of a head end system H may take i a GPS measurement of the communication node C and ii the impedance measurement by the communication node C to determine GIS coordinates for the device asset. Accordingly PLC and waveform analysis tools can be used at the communication node C to help determine the geospatial relationship of grid devices assets and or to monitor and improve grid device asset health. In contrast analysis calculations performed exclusively at the electric utility data center without using the communication node C that is in the field and thus closer to the grid device asset may be slower and less accurate.

In the specification various embodiments of the present inventive concepts have been disclosed and although specific terms are employed they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many modifications are possible for the disclosed embodiments without materially departing from the teachings and advantages of the present inventive concepts. The present inventive concepts are defined by the following claims with equivalents of the claims to be included therein.

