---

title: Parking lockers
abstract: Methods and systems for retrieving or depositing a package using a beacon are described. A locker and parking space are assigned to a user or selected by the user, and the user is able to access the locker using a mobile device. The mobile device transmits identification information to a beacon associated with the locker. This information is passed to a service provider, who identifies the user or the locker and causes the locker to open.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09424702&OS=09424702&RS=09424702
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09424702
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140530
---
The present invention generally relates to a method of retrieving or depositing packages and reducing the burden of carrying packages during a shopping trip.

Typically a shopping center has a plurality of retail sales locations or stores and some of these shopping centers have hundreds of stores which are located side by side over considerable distances on pedestrian thoroughfares or walkways. Shoppers are able to move over these thoroughfares and into the retail establishments to make purchases and receive packages of their goods at these points of purchase. Because one may wish to shop at stores that happen to be far apart it is a nuisance and often quite difficult for some individuals to carry their packages while they continue to shop. Furthermore if the burden of carrying packages is great enough one may be forced to cut short the intended shopping trip. Accordingly there is a need to lessen this burden on shoppers.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

The present disclosure describes systems and methods that remove user friction associated with retrieving and depositing packages. In various embodiments a user is able to automatically access a locker associated with a parking space without manually providing identification or authentication information. For example the user need not provide a password or personal identification number PIN .

In one embodiment the user goes shopping pulls into a parking space and selects a locker close to the parking space. The user uses his or her mobile device to connect with a beacon associated with the selected locker. As the user purchases items authorized merchants can open the selected locker to place the purchased items in the locker. When the user wants to open the locker the beacon recognizes the mobile device of the user and the locker is unlocked or opened.

In another embodiment a locker is assigned to a user a merchant places purchased products or items in the locker and the locker is automatically opened when the user s mobile device is detected. The mobile device transmits identification information e.g. user ID password PIN account information telephone number address email address etc. to a beacon associated with the locker. Once the beacon receives this information it is passed along to a service provider who identifies the user and the locker assigned to the user. The service provider causes the locker assigned to the user to be opened so that the user can retrieve the package. The same method can be used to drop off a package in the locker.

As shown in the system includes a mobile device e.g. a smartphone or a wearable computing device with a RFID chip a merchant server or device a beacon e.g. a radio frequency beacon or Bluetooth Low Energy BLE beacon a storage compartment or locker associated with the beacon and at least one service provider server or device e.g. network server device in communication over the network . The network in one embodiment may each be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments the network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of communication networks. In another example the network may comprise a wireless telecommunications network e.g. cellular phone network adapted to communicate with other communication networks such as the Internet.

The mobile device is configured to perform one or more tasks when mobile device is located in proximity to the beacon . The task to be performed can include for example launching an application program setting certain files to non accessible mode initiating a phone call sounding an alarm storing a message displaying a message receiving a message sending a message etc.

The mobile device in various embodiments may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over the network . The mobile device in one embodiment may be utilized by the user to interact with the service provider server over the network . For example the user may conduct financial transactions e.g. account transfers bill payment etc. with the service provider server via the mobile device . In various implementations the mobile device may include a wireless telephone e.g. cellular or mobile phone a tablet a wearable computing device a personal computer a notebook computer and or various other generally known types of wired and or wireless computing devices.

The mobile device in one embodiment includes a user interface application which may be utilized by the user to conduct financial transactions e.g. shopping purchasing bidding etc. or information transactions with the merchant server or device or the service provider server over the network . In one aspect purchase expenses may be directly and or automatically debited from an account related to the user by the service provider when the user uses the user interface application .

In one implementation the user interface application comprises a software program such as a graphical user interface GUI executable by a processor that is configured to interface and communicate with the service provider server via the network . In another implementation the user interface application comprises a browser module that provides a network interface to browse information available over the network . For example the user interface application may be implemented in part as a web browser to view information available over the network .

In an example the user is able to access merchant websites via the one or more merchant servers to view and select items for purchase and the user is able to purchase items from the one or more merchant servers via the service provider server . Accordingly in one or more embodiments the user may conduct transactions e.g. purchase and provide payment for one or more items from the one or more merchant servers via the service provider server .

The mobile device in various embodiments may include other applications as may be desired in one or more embodiments of the present disclosure to provide additional features available to user . In one example such other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features calendar application contacts application location based services application programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over the network and or various other types of generally known programs and or software applications. In still other examples the other applications may interface with the user interface application for improved efficiency and convenience.

The mobile device in one embodiment may include at least one user identifier which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with the user interface application identifiers associated with hardware of the mobile device or various other appropriate identifiers. The user identifier may include one or more attributes related to the user such as personal information related to the user e.g. one or more user names passwords PIN numbers photograph images biometric IDs addresses phone numbers etc. and banking information and or funding sources e.g. one or more banking institutions credit card issuers user account numbers security data and information etc. . In various implementations the user identifier may be passed with a user login request to the service provider server via the network and the user identifier may be used by the service provider server to associate the user with a particular user account maintained by the service provider server .

In some embodiments the mobile device includes a communication subsystem which can include radio frequency receivers and transmitters and or optical e.g. infrared receivers and transmitters. The specific design and implementation of the communication subsystem can depend on the communication network over which the mobile device is intended to operate. For example the mobile device can include communication subsystems designed to operate over a Global System for Mobile Communication GSM network a General Packet Radio Service GPRS network an Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE network a Wi Fi or WiMax network an LTE Direct network and a Bluetooth network.

The one or more merchant servers in various embodiments may be maintained by one or more business entities or in some cases by a partner of a business entity that processes transactions on behalf of business entities . Examples of businesses entities include merchant sites resource information sites utility sites real estate management sites social networking sites etc. which offer various items for purchase and payment. In some embodiments business entities may need registration of the user identity information as part of offering items to the user over the network . As such each of the one or more merchant servers may include a merchant database for identification items for sale which may be made available to the mobile device for viewing and purchase by the user . In one or more embodiments user may complete a transaction such as purchasing the items via the service provider server .

Each of the merchant servers in one embodiment may include a marketplace application which may be configured to provide information over the network to the user interface application of the mobile device . For example user may interact with the marketplace application through the user interface application over the network to search and view various items available for purchase in the merchant database .

Each of the merchant servers in one embodiment may include at least one merchant identifier which may be included as part of the one or more items made available for purchase so that e.g. particular items are associated with particular merchants. In one implementation the merchant identifier may include one or more attributes and or parameters related to the merchant such as business and banking information. In various embodiments user may conduct transactions e.g. searching selection monitoring purchasing and or providing payment for items with each merchant server . The service provider server can assist in providing payment for items over the network .

A merchant website may also communicate for example using merchant server with the service provider through service provider server over network . For example the merchant website may communicate with the service provider in the course of various services offered by the service provider to merchant website such as payment intermediary between customers of the merchant website and the merchant website itself. For example the merchant website may use an application programming interface API that allows it to offer sale of goods in which customers are allowed to make payment through the service provider while user may have an account with the service provider that allows user to use the service provider for making payments to merchants that allow use of authentication authorization and payment services of service provider as a payment intermediary. The merchant website may also have an account with the service provider.

Beacon may be a hardware device including sensors that is separate from a user device and transportable or it can be a user device that includes Bluetooth technology. To prevent theft of beacons in cases where the beacon is transportable the beacon may be locked down such that it would not function if moved to another location without secure configuration changes. Beacon may be set up by merchants or individuals offering various items such as products and or services for sale. As defined herein a beacon is a short range communication device having a known or fixed location that provides a signal that can be detected by mobile devices within a certain proximity of the beacon. An example of a beacon is a radio frequency RF beacon e.g. Bluetooth low energy BLE beacon infrared beacon or a radio frequency identifier RFID tag. For example a BLE beacon can broadcast an RF signal that includes its position coordinates e.g. latitude longitude which can be detected by a mobile device. In some implementations the beacon can also advertise location based services provided by a beacon network. A beacon network encompasses a plurality of beacons in a geographic region.

Beacon is typically maintained by one or more service providers. When user comes in range of beacon a mobile application on the mobile device run by a service provider can wake up and connect to the beacon . Mobile device can then receive messages from beacon and beacon can receive messages from the mobile device . In some implementations beacon is a BLE beacon. Beacon can transmit customized messages to the mobile device based on the location of the mobile device .

Beacon can output a wireless signal that can be detected by mobile device when mobile device is within a certain proximity of the beacon . Beacon may be a device that periodically or continuously transmits a signal such as a short distance wireless e.g. BLE medium distance wireless e.g. Wi Fi and or other electro magnetic and or electro magnetic transmissions. Power on beacon can be adjusted to communicate only within a desired range which may depend on intended message ranges. Mobile device is configured to detect the transmitted signals from beacon such that when mobile device is located within the transmission range of beacon the signal may be detected.

The locker is a compartment or enclosure capable of holding items. The locker may be part of a group of lockers. Each locker in the group may include a display device input device e.g. keypad key reader a printer and a beacon e.g. beacon . The display device may be any known display device such as a conventional monochrome CRT display device LCD screen touch sensitive display screen plasma screen or the like. The input device may be a numerical keypad conventional computer keyboard touch sensors in a display device or any other device that may be used to convey information. The key reader may be an electronic magnetic or optical card reader bar code scanner or any other device that may be used to read an entry key. The printer may be a receipt printer as is known in the art or any other device that can generate physical copies of information for later review and or use. Each locker in the group of lockers may operate in a variety of ways i.e. not all the lockers have to operate in the same way . For example the locker may operate using numeric codes passwords bar codes or a smart card. In certain embodiments a merchant accesses a locker by using the key reader and or input device. In various embodiments the beacon is used to lock and unlock the locker as further described below.

The service provider server in one embodiment may be maintained by a transaction processing entity which may provide processing for financial transactions and or information transactions between the user merchant server and beacon . As such the service provider server includes a service application which may be adapted to interact with the mobile device merchant server and or beacon over the network . In one example the service provider server may be provided by PayPal Inc. eBay of San Jose Calif. USA and or one or more financial institutions or a respective intermediary that may provide multiple point of sale devices at various locations to facilitate transaction routings between merchants and for example financial institutions.

The service provider server in one embodiment may be configured to maintain one or more user accounts and merchant accounts in an account database each of which may include account information associated with one or more individual users e.g. user and merchants. For example account information may include private financial information of user such as one or more account numbers passwords credit card information banking information or other types of financial information which may be used to facilitate financial transactions between user and a merchant. In various aspects the methods and systems described herein may be modified to accommodate users and or merchants that may or may not be associated with at least one existing user account and or merchant account respectively.

In one implementation the user may have identity attributes stored with the service provider server and user may have credentials to authenticate or verify identity with the service provider server . User attributes may include personal information banking information and or funding sources. In various aspects the user attributes may be passed to the service provider server as part of a login search selection purchase and or payment request and the user attributes may be utilized by the service provider server to associate user with one or more particular user accounts maintained by the service provider server .

In various embodiments the service provider server includes locker management application . Locker management application manages a drive up locker service that is available to user . In exemplary embodiments a locker e.g. locker or group of lockers are placed in proximity to a parking space and the locker or group of lockers are associated with beacon . When the user drives up and parks in the parking space he or she is able to access locker and pick up a package stored in the locker or drop off a package in the locker . In some embodiments the beacon receives identification information from mobile device . The locker management application receives the identification information from the beacon identifies the user based on the identification information matches the user with a locker and causes the locker to be opened so that the user can retrieve or drop off a package.

Referring now to a flowchart of a method for retrieving or depositing a package is illustrated according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In various embodiments the user registers with a service provider which runs a mobile application. Registration may include signing up for the service and agreeing to any terms required by the service provider such as through a user device. In one embodiment the user device is a mobile computing device such as a smartphone a PC or a computing tablet. In other embodiments registration may be done completely through the user device partially through the user device or without using the user device such as through a phone call or in person visit to a representative of the payment service provider.

The user may be requested to provider specific information for registration such as but not limited to a name address phone number email address picture a user name for the account a password or PIN for the account or other biometric identification such as a fingerprint. The type of information may depend on whether the user already has an account with the service provider. Requested information may be entered through the user device or other means including voice or manual key entry. Once all the requested information is received and confirmed the service provider may create an account for the user.

At step the user parks in a parking space in a merchant parking lot and selects a locker close to the parking space. For example the locker may be a locker right next to the space or a locker at the end of the parking row. In one embodiment the mobile device is a smartphone. The smartphone connects to the beacon associated with the selected locker . The beacon links the user to the selected locker so that the user can open the locker when the beacon recognizes the smartphone. In another embodiment the mobile device is a wearable device with an RFID chip e.g. RFID bracelet that is issued to the user and that is already linked to locker . When the user wants to open locker the beacon recognizes the wearable device as associated with the locker and the locker opens.

The locker is typically not associated with just one merchant but instead can be used by many merchants. In certain embodiments the locker is part of a group of lockers managed or maintained by a shopping mall where the merchant is located. Individual lockers may be a variety of sizes so as to fit various items or packages. Alternatively the lockers may be sized uniformly.

In exemplary embodiments the locker is located in a parking lot or parking structure and is associated with a specific parking space. A beacon e.g. beacon may be associated with a specific locker e.g. locker or group of lockers. The beacon can receive identification information from the mobile device when the user comes within a certain range of the beacon and passes on the identification information so that the correct locker is opened. In various embodiments each parking space includes its own locker and its own beacon. Only the user is able to access the locker while the user is parked in the parking space and no one else can open the locker until the parking space is empty. In some embodiments the beacon detects the mobile device as the user pulls into the parking space and associates the mobile device with the locker even if the locker is not being used. In this way a locker opens any time the mobile device is detected. The beacon detects the mobile device a second time as the user pulls out of the parking space thereby removing the user s access to the locker. In other embodiments a group of parking spaces e.g. a portion of a parking lot may be associated with a group of lockers and a beacon. The beacon is located in proximity to the locker and or parking space. By locating the locker next to or in proximity to a parking space it is easier for the user to load unload and place packages in a car or other vehicle. In some embodiments the user does not need to get out of the car to receive the package but may obtain the package through a car window.

At step the user purchases one or more items from a merchant e.g. a merchant associated with merchant device or server . For example the user can enter a physical store of a merchant select items and pay for the purchase. After payment for the items the user can indicate to the merchant that he or she wants the purchased items placed in the locker . The user may provide the locker number to the merchant and authorize the merchant to open the locker . For example the user can indicate to the service provider via the mobile device that the user gives permission to a particular merchant to open the locker . When the beacon detects a merchant device identifying information of the merchant device can be passed to the service provider server so that an authorized merchant is identified and the locker is opened.

The locker service allows the user to continue shopping at other stores without the burden of carrying the item around. This frees the user to spend as much time as he or she wants browsing and visiting other locations. In various embodiments the merchant holds the purchased item for the user until the user is ready to pick up the items in locker . In other embodiments the user takes the item drops it off at a kiosk with an attendant the attendant places the item in the locker and then the user picks it up in the locker .

At step the merchant places the purchased items in the locker. Each merchant that the user visits may be provided with the number of the locker so that each merchant can place purchased items in the locker for the user . In some embodiments the user is notified each time an item is delivered to the locker . Delivery of an item is detected in various ways including for example a merchant or courier sending a signal from a merchant or courier device detection of a merchant or courier device by a beacon and detection of the opening and closing of a locker.

In various embodiments the user s purchases are consolidated and the locker is opened only once to reduce the risk of missing items. For example even though the user purchases items from Merchant A Merchant B and Merchant C the items from all three merchants are delivered to the locker all at once rather than one by one. Once all purchased items are delivered the user can be notified. In some embodiments merchants and couriers are allowed access to the locker only at specific times or periods to limit and better control access.

At step when the user is done shopping for the day he or she returns to the parking space and locker. The user takes out the mobile device . The mobile device makes a connection with beacon . For example the beacon senses user s presence by way of electronic communication with mobile device . The beacon receives a request to unlock a locker from the mobile device and receives identification information such as account credentials mobile device details e.g. user identifier and or locker identification information from the mobile device .

At step the beacon passes the identification information to the service provider server . The locker associated with the mobile device can be identified based on the identification information and opened. The user can also be identified by the service provider server using the user identifier and or the account credentials e.g. user name password email address telephone number etc. . Identity verification may also be implemented based on one or more of a scan of an identity card a photograph of a user s face and or a scan of the user s fingerprints.

At step the service provider server identifies the user and determines which locker is associated with the user . For example the service provider server can look up the user and retrieve the user s locker number from a database.

At step the service provider server instructs the merchant server or another entity who has control over the locker to open or unlock the locker . The user can then receive the contents in the locker or place an item in the locker .

Referring now to a flowchart of a method for retrieving or depositing a package according to another embodiment of the present disclosure is illustrated. At step the user purchases one or more items from a merchant associated with merchant device or server . In an example the user uses mobile device to shop. For instance the user may access a merchant site seller site marketplace site or other site or mobile app that enables a user to shop and make a purchase. The user then selects desired items for purchase. The purchase may be items physical goods digital goods donations services etc. Note that items as used herein may include one or more of the different purchases listed above. The selected items may be placed in a cart which the user can review and edit if needed.

After payment for the items the user can indicate that he or she wants to use the drive up locker service to pick up the purchased items. If the user has pre ordered items or arranged for a retail store to hold items for pick up the store may be provided advanced notice of the user s visit and may arrange for the item to be available for the user for pick up in a locker such as when the user enters a merchant parking lot.

At step the merchant server or another entity with control of the lockers assigns an unoccupied locker e.g. locker to hold packages for the user and the merchant places the package in the locker . In certain embodiments delivery of packages is tracked based on when a courier or merchant device is detected at the locker and the locker opened. In this way there is accountability of the package in the event a package is missing.

In some embodiments a label may be placed on the package that contains information regarding the assigned locker . The locker is assigned based on various factors such as location of the user size of item or package to be placed in the locker the kind of item or package to be placed in the locker e.g. if it needs refrigeration or any type of special handling etc. The locker can be conveniently located in the same building shopping structure or shopping mall that the user is shopping at or a self parking area of the mall. For example the user may be shopping at The Orange Mall and the locker is located in the parking structure connected to the Orange Mall. In some embodiments the locker is located in the parking lot of the merchant. For example the locker may be located in a Wal Mart parking lot. The assigned locker is sized to hold the package and holds the package until the user retrieves the package.

At step the merchant server communicates the location of the assigned locker e.g. locker 123 at the second floor of the parking structure and an assigned parking space corresponding to the assigned locker e.g. parking space 123 to the user . For example the merchant server may send a message to the user of the mobile device e.g. email message telephone call text message etc. informing the user that to retrieve his or her package he or she needs to visit the specific locker and park in the specific parking space. The merchant server also sends the locker and user information to the service provider server .

At step the user drives into the assigned parking space. The mobile device makes a connection with beacon . The beacon senses user s presence by way of electronic communication with mobile device . The beacon receives a request to unlock a locker from the mobile device and receives identification information such as account credentials and or mobile device details e.g. user identifier from the mobile device . In some embodiments the mobile device also transmits a locker number to the beacon .

At step the beacon passes this information to the service provider server . The user can be identified by the service provider server using the user identifier and or the account credentials e.g. user name password email address telephone number etc. . Identity verification may also be implemented based on one or more of a scan of an identity card a photograph of a user s face and or a scan of the user s fingerprints.

In some embodiments even before the user makes a purchase he or she is assigned a locker and a parking space. For example the user makes a trip to the supermarket and pulls into the assigned parking space. The supermarket is notified that the user is in the parking lot when a beacon associated with the assigned locker detects the mobile device . The supermarket knows which locker is assigned to the user because of where the user is parked. When the user checks out the supermarket can place the purchased groceries in the assigned locker.

In various embodiments the service provider server can confirm the identity of the user based on vehicle identification details. For example vehicle identification information may be extracted from image data taken of the vehicle parked in the parking space associated with the assigned locker. Vehicle identification information includes the license plate number of the vehicle make of the vehicle model of the vehicle color of the vehicle and a geographic location or license plate issuing authority entity e.g. state or country government to which a license plate belongs or is associated with. Vehicle identification information can also include one or more distinguishing features of the vehicle e.g. dents scratches bumper stickers emblems decals and various vehicle features e.g. sunroof spoiler rims or hubcaps exhaust pipes etc. . The vehicle identification information is used to further authenticate the user . In some embodiments portions of the vehicle information may be stored in a third party database. For example in some embodiments license plate information may be stored in a third party database maintained by a state s Department of Motor Vehicles.

At step the service provider server identifies the user and determines which locker contains the package for user . For example the service provider server can look up the user and retrieve the user s assigned locker number from a database. At step the service provider server instructs the merchant server to open or unlock the locker. The user can then receive the contents in the locker.

If the user fails to pick up his or her package the service provider server may send a notification to the mobile device with the locker and parking space details. The user may be allowed to pick up the package within a predetermined number of days. Beyond this predetermined period the package may be returned to the merchant.

It should be noted that the locker or group of lockers can function not only as a pick up point but a drop off point also. In this embodiment the user can drive into a parking space and select a locker as described above with respect to . The user can also request a locker from the merchant server and tell the merchant server the size of the drop off load. The merchant server assigns an available locker and parking space to the user . When the user pulls up in the parking space the mobile device transmits identification information to the beacon . The beacon sends the identification information to the service provider and the service provider instructs the merchant to open the locker. The locker is then available for the user to deposit the package he she wants to drop off. The user may post instructions on the package as how he she wants the package to be handled. The features discussed above with respect to depositing a package in a locker are equally applicable to methods of dropping off a package in a locker.

The present disclosure describes systems and methods that reduce the burden of a user by allowing packages to be picked up and dropped off in lockers. The lockers are conveniently located near where the user is shopping. The user does not need to memorize or remember a password or carry a card to access the locker. Instead the user s mobile device acts as the key to open the locker.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user i.e. sender recipient service provider action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons or links etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. . An optional audio input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals. Audio I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another user device a merchant server or a service provider server via network . In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. A processor which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices via a communication link . Processor may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in non transitory computer readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The various features and steps described herein may be implemented as systems comprising one or more memories storing various information described herein and one or more processors coupled to the one or more memories and a network wherein the one or more processors are operable to perform steps as described herein as non transitory machine readable medium comprising a plurality of machine readable instructions which when executed by one or more processors are adapted to cause the one or more processors to perform a method comprising steps described herein and methods performed by one or more devices such as a hardware processor user device server and other devices described herein.

