---

title: Systems and methods for sensorimotor rehabilitation
abstract: A sensorimotor rehabilitation system can analyze body movement kinematics of a person, and in particular analyze the use of limbs (e.g., upper limbs) to provide feedback for sensorimotor rehabilitation. Parameters of body movement (e.g., quantity and type of body movement) can be assessed based on data recorded from an inertial sensor affixed or connected to, for example, an upper limb of a person or outer clothing such as a sleeve. Automated feedback can be provided to the user to improve sensorimotor rehabilitation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09311789&OS=09311789&RS=09311789
owner: BIOSENSICS LLC
number: 09311789
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140409
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e as a nonprovisional of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 810 141 titled A WEARABLE SENSOR SYSTEM FOR SENSORIMOTOR REHABILITATION USING INERTIAL MEASUREMENT and filed Apr. 9 2013 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this specification.

The present application generally relates to analyzing body movement kinematics of a person and in particular analyzing the use of limbs to provide feedback for sensorimotor rehabilitation.

Stroke is a leading cause of severe long term disability. Stroke and other causes of central nervous system damage e.g. spinal cord injury traumatic brain injury brain infections cerebral palsy demyelinating diseases meningitis brain tumors and congenital brain malformations can result in a debilitating loss of motor control that is often more pronounced in one limb than the other. As a result of this motor function imbalance patients tend to stop using their affected e.g. impaired or relatively more affected impaired limb and instead favor the unaffected e.g. unimpaired or relatively less affected impaired limb. Such favored use of a particular limb creates a phenomenon that is referred to as learned non use where patients can continue to favor their unaffected limb and rehabilitation of the affected limb is compromised. Using or attempting to use the affected limb during activities of daily living despite considerable difficulty stimulates neuroplasticity and motor function recovery.

A rehabilitative therapy called Constraint Induced Movement Therapy CIMT has been shown to prevent and or reverse learned non use following stroke as discussed in Taub E. and D. M. Morris Curr Atheroscler Rep 2001 3 4 p. 279 86 which is incorporated by reference and made a part of this specification. CIMT has also been more recently explored as a treatment for children with Cerebral Palsy in cases where one limb exhibits less motor impairment than the other as discussed in Huang H. H. et al. Phys Ther 2009 89 11 p. 1126 41 which is incorporated by reference and made a part of this specification. CIMT involves constraining the unaffected limb thereby forcing the patient to use their affected limb. Forced use of the affected limb stimulates neuroplasticity and has been shown to significantly improve motor function of the affected limb as discussed in Wolf S. L. et al. 3 9 JAMA 2006 296 17 p. 2095 104 which is incorporated by reference and made a part of this specification. A conventional 2 week bout of CIMT consists of constraining the upper limb for up to 90 of waking hours and participating in one on one therapy for up to 6 hours per day 5 days per week.

CIMT has not yet been incorporated as part of the standard practice for the rehabilitation of the hemiplegic or hemiparetic upper extremity due to several limitations and concerns as discussed in Viana R. and R. Teasell Top Stroke Rehabil 2012 19 2 p. 104 14 which is incorporated by reference and made a part of this specification. First constraining the unaffected limb may be a safety issue for example in patients with impaired balance. Second CIMT therapy can be expensive due to for example the duration of one on one CIMT therapy. Third patients may decline to participate due to the intensity of the CIMT therapy. Fourth high dosage of physical and occupational therapy may not be feasible due to for example lack of transportation geography or other limiting factors. Modified CIMT was developed to potentially address some of these limitations but still includes for example 3 1 hour therapy sessions per week and 5 hours of limb constraint per day.

Disclosed herein are sensorimotor rehabilitation systems and methods of for example using wearable sensors to facilitate sensorimotor rehabilitation. In some embodiments a wearable sensor or set of wearable sensors can incorporate or be based on the concepts of CIMT. The sensorimotor rehabilitation system can include at least one wearable sensor on the left upper limb extremity e.g. left arm including shoulder upper arm elbow forearm wrist hand and or fingers and or at least one wearable sensor on the right upper limb extremity e.g. right arm including shoulder upper arm elbow forearm wrist hand and or fingers . In some embodiments the sensorimotor rehabilitation system can include one or more wearable sensors positioned on a lower extremity e.g. leg shank foot etc. . In some embodiments the one or more wearable sensors can be shaped and sized to have a form factor of a bracelet e.g. one instrumented or sensor bracelet on each wrist . In some embodiments the one or more wearable sensors can be shaped and sized to have a form factor of a watch e.g. one instrumented or sensor watch on each wrist . In some embodiments one wearable sensor can be shaped and sized to have a form factor of a bracelet and one sensor can be shaped and sized to have a form fact of a watch e.g. one instrumented or sensor bracelet on one wrist and another one instrumented or sensor watch on the other wrist . In some embodiments the sensors can be connected to and or affixed to the hands forearms and or upper arms of the patient. The sensors can use inertial measurement to monitor the movements of limbs. Monitoring the movement of the limbs can include detecting specific movements e.g. reaching writing eating performing a prescribed rehabilitative exercise . The sensorimotor rehabilitation system can provide feedback to the wearer e.g. the patient physician clinician and or trainer regarding limb movement of the wearer.

The provided feedback can reflect the relative usage of the affected e.g. hemiplegic or hemiparetic limb compared to the unaffected limb. In some embodiments the sensorimotor rehabilitation systems and methods can be used to promote usage of the affected limb to inhibit prevent impede and or reverse learned non use of the affected limb without compromising safety by for example constraining the unaffected limb. In some embodiments the sensorimotor rehabilitation system can facilitate rehabilitative training in a community setting without the presence of a therapist by for example reminding the user to perform a prescribed rehabilitation exercise.

The sensorimotor rehabilitation system can provide unobtrusive integration of the sensors into daily activities. The sensorimotor rehabilitation system can measure use of the affected and unaffected limbs so that timely biofeedback can be provided when natural daily activities are occurring. For example as a patient performs a goal directed task with the unaffected limb e.g. reaching for an object the sensor on that limb will recognize the movement and then trigger a vibrotactile reminder that the patient should try to use the affected limb. If the movement is critical e.g. signing a check the patient can simply ignore the feedback and execute the task with the unaffected limb. If the task is not critical the gentle reminder may be enough to motivate the patient to attempt the task with the affected limb. In some embodiments the sensorimotor rehabilitation system may not provide periodic affected limb reminders to the patient particularly during resting activities e.g. when watching TV to help avoid potential nuisance and annoyance with the system. During resting activities the sensorimotor rehabilitation system may otherwise be on standby and or idle without outputting visual audible and or vibrotactile messages.

Generating feedback information can include generating the feedback information for real time presentation for example. The generating of the feedback information can further include generating information for use in generating audible and or tactile e.g. vibrotactile feedback to for example encourage affected limb use during activities of daily living. The generating of feedback can include reminders to perform daily prescribed rehabilitation exercises in a home environment. The generating of the feedback information can further include generating visual feedback indicative an identified characteristic of movement and a suggested corrective action. The generating of feedback information can include electronically storing the feedback information such that the user and or therapist can later access the feedback information providing documentation of progress. For example if the user is not attempting to use their affected limb during activities of daily living or if the user is not performing prescribed rehabilitation exercises then the therapists or other caregiver would have objective data to provide feedback to patients during follow up visits. Information gathered from such an assessment can aid therapists in more efficiently targeting at risk or non compliant patients.

The sensorimotor rehabilitation system also leverages patient accountability because the therapist or other caregiver may have convenient access to activity data via a secure website. In that case patients who for example do not attempt to use the affected limb e.g. ignore prompts from the sensorimotor rehabilitation system in the home environment could be reminded to do so at their next clinical visit or other meeting with a caregiver. Through biofeedback and accountability the sensorimotor rehabilitation system can help inhibit prevent and or reverse learned non use without compromising safety and overburdening the patient by physically constraining the unaffected limb. Additionally patients who tend to use both limbs generally exhibit better every day functioning yet those patients may still tend to favor the use of the unaffected limb. Therefore in some cases encouraging the use of the affected limb may both facilitate motor rehabilitation via neuroplasticity and improve every day functioning.

Wearable sensors can be used in real time or substantially real time because the recorded signals can be processed quickly. Certain embodiments utilizing a combination of multiple accelerometers angular rate sensors gyroscopes and magnetometers can act as a hybrid kinematic sensor module for measuring the 3D kinematics of different body segments as well as for various clinical applications such as measuring spatio temporal parameters of gait assessing joint kinematics assessing the risk of falling and monitoring spontaneous daily physical activity. U.S. Pat. No. 8 206 325 entitled AMBULATORY SYSTEM FOR MEASURING AND MONITORING PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND RISK OF FALLING FOR AUTOMATIC FALL DETECTION the 325 patent is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety herein. Techniques described in the 325 patent including techniques for assessing gait determining risk of falling monitoring physical activity and the like are compatible with and can be used in conjunction embodiments described herein.

The inertial sensor s can include an accelerometer. In some embodiments the sensor can include a gyroscope and or a magnetometer. A tri axial accelerometer can measure acceleration in three perpendicular directions. A gyroscope can provide data that can be integrated e.g. over a particular and or predetermined movement of a body segment to provide an estimation of orientation of the body segment. A magnetometer can be used to estimate orientation for example relative to the earth s magnetic field. In some embodiments an accelerometer may not be used. In some embodiments the sensor e.g. an inertial sensor may be an accelerometer or a gyroscope or both. The accelerometer and or the gyroscope can be uni axial bi axial or tri axial for example measuring acceleration and or rotational velocity along at least one axis. Accelerometer gyroscope and or magnetometer data may be combined to provide a quaternion representation of the sensor in space corresponding to a position and movement of a body segment. The sensor s may be Micro Electrical Mechanical Systems MEMS based inertial sensor technology e.g. InvenSens MPU 9150 . The inertial sensor s can be attached to for example directly to the person or to another item attached to the person e.g. clothing and or band around or about a body segment such as an upper limb .

In some embodiments a feedback mechanism including information about the wearer s body segment e.g. upper limb movement can be used to facilitate automated feedback e.g. virtual coaching that guides the user for improved motor function or improved sensorimotor rehabilitation. Automated feedback can be provided in lieu of or in addition to descriptive information related to body segment movement e.g. quantity and type of movement where descriptive information may not include feedback e.g. suggested corrective action to facilitate sensorimotor rehabilitation.

A method of analyzing limb use can include receiving one or more signals generated by at least one inertial sensor supported at a position on an upper limb of a person. The method can further include with processing electronics comprising digital logic circuitry processing sensor data derived from the one or more signals to identify a characteristic associated with the use of the upper limb. Based at least in part on the identified characteristic the method includes generating information usable to present feedback to the person. The feedback can be indicative of usage of the limb and or a corrective action for achieving a desired and or predetermined usage of the limb. In some embodiments the method is performed using exclusively sensors supported by the person s body.

The inertial sensor and the processing electronics can be housed together in a packaging. The packaging can include an attachment mechanism configured to allow the packaging to be attached to one or more upper limbs or parts of limbs of a person. The inertial sensor may be housed in a packaging comprising an engagement mechanism configured to mate with a mounting unit to releasably secure the packaging to a sensor mount unit attached to the person e.g. wrist of the person .

In some embodiments the sensorimotor rehabilitation system can include a wireless transmitter configured to send to a separate computer system the information usable to present the feedback to the user. At least a portion of the processing electronics may reside in a computer system that is separate from a housing that contains the inertial sensor. The sensorimotor rehabilitation system can be configured to perform any of the functionality described above with respect to the method of analyzing limb use or any limb use analysis and feedback functionality otherwise described herein.

The foregoing is a summary and contains simplifications generalization and omissions of detail. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. Other aspects features and advantages of the devices and or processes and or other subject matter described herein will become apparent in the teachings set forth herein. The summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of any subject matter described herein.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description and drawings are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the figures may be arranged substituted combined and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated and made a part of this disclosure.

In particular disclosed herein are systems and methods for analyzing body segment kinematics movement e.g. predetermined clinically relevant biomechanical parameters of limb movement to help improve sensorimotor rehabilitation e.g. help improve motor function .

Until recently measurement of body motion under real life conditions has been difficult and impractical. Traditionally limb movement has been assessed using laboratory based systems e.g. during clinical visits . While these systems are clinically accepted as the gold standard several drawbacks render them unsuitable for clinical and or everyday applications. Specifically currently available motion analysis systems are time consuming expensive and require an existing infrastructure and highly trained personnel.

The recent emergence of body worn sensor technology has provided new ways to measure and assess motor functions including body kinematics e.g. limb movement and physical activity. For example the combination of accelerometers with angular rate sensors e.g. gyroscopes holds great promise for hybrid kinematic sensor modules that measure the three dimensional kinematics of body segments. Three key advantages render body worn sensors ideal tools for developing clinical sports and or everyday applications 1 they are relatively inexpensive 2 they are light weight and portable and 3 they typically do not require a specific environment or installation of any particular infrastructure. Body worn sensors consequently have tremendous potential for enabling physicians and or trainers to evaluate body movement under real conditions by quantifying its subcomponents such as body segment kinematics data kinetic data and motor adaptation.

Embodiments of the disclosure are directed to an innovative portable and cost effective body worn sensor based system to evaluate body segment kinematics and in particular movement of body segments such as limb movement. Various embodiments use accelerometers gyroscopes and or magnetometers to measure the three dimensional motion of for example upper limb of a person. In some embodiments sensors could be attached to other body segments to evaluate a person s body segment movements and or provide feedback for sensorimotor rehabilitation. In some embodiments the sensorimotor rehabilitation system can include one or more of the following 1 a sensing unit s e.g. inertial sensor that can be affixed attached and or connected to the arm including shoulder upper arm elbow forearm wrist hand and or fingers and or 2 a unit that provides feedback which may be provided through a variety of channels such as for example directly by the sensor or indirectly via an external electronic device e.g. personal computer mobile phone tablet computer and or other device some of which may be carried by the user . In some embodiments a method for sensorimotor rehabilitation analysis can include one or more of the following 1 method s for computing or extracting relevant body segment kinematics from data recorded by the sensing unit and or 2 method s for generating feedback information based on the recorded data for display of that information to the user s . Users of the system may include the person wearing the sensor s or other individuals assigned to view the wearer s data e.g. a trainer or medical personnel .

To enable unsupervised e.g. by a therapist monitoring of motor activity in home and community settings the sensorimotor rehabilitation system can perform automatic detection of goal directed movements e.g. reaching for a glass of water turning a door knob and or performing a prescribed therapeutic exercises during activities of daily living ADL . Therapists can remotely monitor the movement data and or review the data with patients during clinic visits.

At block in some embodiments feedback data is generated and outputted by the sensorimotor rehabilitation system. In some embodiments the feedback data can include information sufficient to generate depiction of desired feedback for display via a user interface display. The feedback data can include a comparison of a determined quantity and type of limb movement or other characteristics with a desired quantity and type of limb movement or other characteristics. The desired quantity and type of limb movement may be determined based on sensor data collected when the user is in motion. The feedback data can be provided for real time display to a user. In some embodiments the body segment kinematics and or feedback data may be stored in a mass storage within the system or remotely on a server and accessed for later viewing. The stored body segment kinematics and or feedback data may be combined with data related to a future performance of motion to support data tracking and analysis for desired and or predetermined body segment kinematics for sensorimotor rehabilitation.

The sensorimotor rehabilitation system can be developed to be applicable generally to hemiparetic patients. In some embodiments the sensorimotor rehabilitation system can be tailored to a specific patient or specific set of patients. For example the sensorimotor system can have a configuration mode where the patient performs a specific set of body motions and or exercises for the sensorimotor rehabilitation system to learn movements of the patient. In some embodiments the sensorimotor rehabilitation system can be adjusted to function for a specific set of patients. For example a patient and or physician may input specified data and or ranges for data into the sensorimotor rehabilitation system via for example a configuration mode. The input data and or ranges of data can include for example height weight arm length level of arm function clinical movement scores e.g. Functional Ability Scale FAS score as discussed in Wolf S. et al. Archives of Physical Medicine and rehabilitation 2006 p. 443 5 which is incorporated by reference and made a part of this specification or Fugl Meyer Assessment score as discussed in Sanford J. et al. Phys Ther 1993 73 7 p. 447 54 which is incorporated by reference and made a part of this specification affected limb side i.e. left or right etc. The input data can also include a set of home exercises to be performed each day and the wearable sensor system can be used to monitor compliance with prescribed exercises. In some embodiments a set of home exercises could selected from preset options including for example those listed in Table 1.

In some embodiments specially designed clothing e.g. sleeves shirts gloves etc. can be made to house the sensor in a predetermined desired position. For example a sleeve of a shirt may have an indentation or cutout to house the sensor in a desired and or predetermined position. Other configurations can be implemented for other clothing of the user. For example the sensor can be adapted to attach to pre existing everyday clothing e.g. with bands Velcro laces brackets etc. . Housing the sensor in a predetermined position relative to a body segment of a user may allow for more accurate and or precise measurement of body movement as discussed herein.

In some embodiments the sensor can have an Analog Devices ADXL344 tri axial accelerometer Nordic Semiconductor nRF51822 BLE radio module a main controller and or a low power vibrotactor as discussed herein. A printed circuit board PCB with components of the sensor as discussed herein can be housed in a flexible over molded silicone or other suitable material enclosure.

As illustrated in the visual display can provide an exercise graphic . The exercise graphic can prompt and or remind a patient to start a particular and or predetermined exercise or other movement. For example as illustrated in the exercise graphic illustrates that a patient should start an upper limb raising and or reaching exercise. The exercise graphic can be interactive and or dynamically display sequences of exercises to be performed. The sensor can track monitor and or analyze an exercise being performed in real time. The visual display can provide feedback as discussed herein on the exercise as performed in real time or after performance of the exercise.

In some embodiments the watch sensor can be integrated into a commercially available programmable smartwatch with a Bluetooth Low Energy BLE radio module e.g. STRATA Stealth Meta Watch Ltd. Dallas Tex. . For example a STRATA Stealth watch can have a tri axial accelerometer vibrotactor BLE radio module programmable display and or microprocessor that can be modified and or configured to have the features and functions of a sensor as discussed herein.

With a sensor as discussed herein the sensorimotor rehabilitation system can provide real time visual audible and or vibrotactile feedback to encourage affected limb use during activities of daily living. The sensorimotor rehabilitation system can provide reminders to perform daily prescribed motor control exercises in the home environment. To provide one or more features and function as discussed herein the sensor can perform one or more of the following 1 analyze acceleration data and or other body segment movement data in real time 2 store acceleration movement data in an on board memory 3 receive acceleration movement data from another sensor worn for example on a corresponding upper limb of the person 4 output acceleration movement data to a wired and or wireless external receiver e.g. base station as discussed herein see and or 5 initiate visual and or vibrotactile biofeedback according to desired and or predetermined feedback as discussed herein.

In some embodiments the sensor can have battery capacity and or low energy consuming components to achieve sustainable monitoring of patient body segment for a day or more a week or more or a month or more without recharging. The sensor may remain on standby and or e.g. not record movement data until body movement is detected by the sensor as discussed herein. Such sustainable periods of function without recharging can allow the user to continuously e.g. during awake periods wear the sensor without recharging. The sensors can be recharged at a home of a patient and or during clinic visits. Recharging only during clinic visits can help increase patient compliance e.g. continuously wearing the sensor where for example the sensor is removed from the patient primarily during clinic visits and recharged by a clinician during the clinic visit.

In some embodiments the sensorimotor rehabilitation system can have two or more wearable sensors e.g. a sensor on each upper limb of a person as for example illustrated in . The two or more sensors can wirelessly and or via wires communicate with each other and or other sensorimotor rehabilitation system components as discussed herein. Each sensor can have one or more acceleration sensors and or one or more tilt sensors. In some embodiments the wearable sensors can have a tri axial accelerometer measuring acceleration in three perpendicular directions. In some embodiments the sensor can include one or more rotational velocity sensors e.g. gyroscopes and or one or more magnetic field sensors e.g. magnetometers . The various combinations of sensors as discussed herein can be an inertial sensor package e.g. sensor as discussed herein. The two or more wearable sensors can include any combination of sensor forms as discussed herein. For example at least one of the sensors can have a visual display as discussed herein e.g. a sensor having a watch form while the other sensors will not having a visual display . As another example the two or more sensors can be without visual displays e.g. a sensor having a wristband bracelet form and provide vibrotactile feedback as discussed herein.

According to some embodiments herein the biofeedback watch and or biofeedback bracelet sensors can be positioned on contralateral wrists can monitor movements of the affected and unaffected limbs and or can provide visual audible and or vibrotactile feedback to the user as discussed herein. In some embodiments the biofeedback watch sensor can be worn on the affected limb . In some embodiments the biofeedback watch sensor can be worn on the unaffected limb . The biofeedback watch can provide the user with desired visual feedback about use of for example the affected limb as well as display for example reminders about home based exercises prescribed by a clinician.

In some embodiments monitoring the use of a body segment such as a particular limb e.g. upper limb can include detecting specific movements e.g. reaching writing eating performing prescribed rehabilitative exercises based on measurements via the sensor as discussed herein. In some embodiments monitoring the use of a body segment such as a particular limb e.g. upper limb can include detecting specific types of movements. In some embodiments detecting specific types of movements can included distinguishing goal directed upper extremity movements e.g. reaching for an object from secondary or non goal directed movements e.g. the arms swinging as a result of torso movement or during walking or other sources of noise . In some embodiments activities of daily living ADL can be categorized and or grouped into predetermined types of body movements and or groups of types of body movements e.g. Table 1 . The sensorimotor rehabilitation system may monitor and provide feedback based on a number of types of body movements and or groups of types of body movements e.g. quantity of unimanual movements or quantity of reaching movements of the person . The sensorimotor rehabilitation system may provide feedback that includes for example a number of types of body movements and or groups of types of body movements rather than basing feedback on the quantity of limb movement of all e.g. types of body movements.

Specific movements or types of movements can be identified using one or more of the following methods 1 estimating upper limb kinematics from measured inertial data and identifying movement type based on the estimated upper limb kinematics e.g. kinematic methods 2 applying classification rules e.g. classification approaches to the measured inertial data wherein the classification rules have been determined using artificial intelligence classification methods e.g. machine learning or statistical classification methods e.g. Bayesian classification or 3 using a combination of kinematic and classification approaches.

A kinematic method could for example include combining accelerometer gyroscope and or magnetometer data from a sensor or sensors to provide a quaternion representation of an upper extremity limb segment or segments in space which could then be used to identify a specific movement e.g. a reaching task could consist of elbow extension and shoulder flexion . A classification method could for example include extracting a set of features from a time period of recorded inertial data by for example performing any one or more of the following numerical integration differentiation linear combinations non linear combinations time frequency transforms and the like. These features could then serve as input to an algorithm whose output is a movement type or category wherein said algorithm was developed e.g. trained based on a data set of inertial sensors signals corresponding to known movement types or categories e.g. training dataset .

As an example this training data set could consist of data from inertial sensors that were collected while subjects in a research study wore the sensors on their upper extremities and performed activities of daily living e.g. those listed in Table 1 or performed upper extremity exercises e.g. those listed in Table 2 . In some embodiments during algorithm development a set of features could be extracted from the sensor data captured during laboratory data collections using for example a sliding window of time. In some embodiments for algorithm development a set or subset of features could be extracted by for example performing feature selection using attribute estimators such as the ReliefF algorithm as discussed in Robnik Sikonja M. and I. Kononenko Machine Learning Journal 2003 53 p. 23 69 which is incorporated by reference and made a part of this specification mutual information filtering techniques as discussed in Kraskov A. et al. Europhysics Letters 2005 70 278 284 which is incorporated by reference and made a part of this specification correlation filtering techniques such as Principal Components Analysis search approaches such as Simulated Annealing as discussed in Kirkpatrick S. et. al. Science 1983 220 p. 671 80 which is incorporated by reference and made a part of this specification and other methods.

Continuing with the example a set or subset of features along with the training data could be used to develop binary classifiers to for example distinguish goal directed from non goal directed movements or multi class classifies to for example group movements into categories e.g. unimanual bimanual stabilization and secondary . The criterion for training the classifier could be for example 70 80 90 95 99 or 99.9 including the foregoing values and ranges bordering therein recognition rate. The binary or multi class classifiers could for example be developed using artificial intelligence classification methods e.g. machine learning such as a Random Forest algorithm as discussed in Breiman L. 2001 45 p. 5 32 which is incorporated by reference and made a part of this specification or using statistical classification methods such as Bayesian classification. During algorithm development the accuracy of the classifiers could be evaluated by performing for example a 10 fold cross validation.

In some embodiments monitoring the use of each limb can include a global measure of limb movement over a time period that is not related to specific movements. A global measure of limb movement could be for example the number of peaks in an acceleration signal exceeding a threshold in a given time period. The time period could include about a month a week 4 days 2 days a day including about 12 hours or less 6 hours or less 5 hours or less 4 hours or less 3 hours or less 2 hours or less 1 hour or less 30 minutes or less 15 minutes or less or 10 minutes or less including about 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 or 1 minute or less including the foregoing values and ranges bordering therein.

In some embodiments feedback e.g. biofeedback can be provided to users regarding body segment movement of a person wearing one or more sensors . Users of the sensorimotor rehabilitation system may include the person wearing one or more sensor or other individuals assigned to view the wearer s data e.g. a therapist clinician trainer caregiver or other medical personnel . Feedback may be provided through a variety of channels such as for example directly by the sensor or indirectly via an external electronic device e.g. a personal computer mobile phone tablet computer or other device carried by the user . In some embodiments the body segment movement data and or feedback data may be housed in a computer server and accessible online via for example a website as discussed herein.

The feedback can include encouraging the use of the affected limb. Feedback can include one or more predetermined threshold values or ranges of values as discussed herein indicating desired and or predetermined body segment movement. In some embodiments the feedback can be provided directly to the user from the sensor via audible indicators e.g. sounds vibrations of the sensor and or visual indicators generated by the sensor and or external electronic device. For example each time the unaffected limb is used the sensor on the unaffected limb could vibrate or make an unpleasant sound to discourage use of the unaffected limb and encourage use of the affected limb. The feedback can be modified based on the type of movement detected. For example if the unaffected limb is used in a bimanual task e.g. picking up a large object or if the movement of the unaffected limb is secondary or non goal directed e.g. the arms swinging as a result of torso movement or during walking then the feedback could be different or could be eliminated. Vibration can include any suitable tactile feedback device and method including various patterns of vibrations to convey a predetermined feedback message. Audible indicators may include spoken voice recordings or a computer generated voice reminding the patient to use the affected limb and or that the unaffected limb is being used. In some embodiments the external electronic device can include a personal computer mobile phone tablet computer watch electronics equipped wrist band and or other device carried by the user.

In some embodiments the sensorimotor rehabilitation system can be configured to discourage any or substantially all use of the unaffected limb e.g. by providing negative feedback whenever the unaffected limb is used . In some embodiments the desired ratio of unaffected limb usage to affected limb usage can be tuned or modified so that as the patient becomes more confident in the use of the affected limb the patient is given feedback to increase the use of the unaffected limb e.g. not discouraging any or substantially all use of the unaffected limb . For example the sensorimotor rehabilitation system can provide feedback to direct guide and or encourage use of the limbs at a desired and or predetermined ratio e.g. equally or 50 50 . Continuing with the example negative feedback could be delivered if for example the patient had made consecutive reaching movements with the unaffected limb without using the affected limb.

Tuning modifying and or changing the desired ratio of unaffected limb usage to affected limb usage can facilitate prolonged biofeedback usage e.g. for several months or more of the sensorimotor rehabilitation system after an initial prescribed period of for example extremely limited usage of the unaffected limb e.g. 2 weeks . As discussed herein patients who tend to use both limbs tend to exhibit better every day functioning yet many patients still tend to favor the exclusive use of the unaffected limb as discussed in Haaland K. Y. et al. Arch Phys Med Rehabil 2012 93 11 p. 1957 62 which is incorporated by reference and made a part of this specification. Therefore in some cases encouraging the use of the affected limb may both facilitate motor rehabilitation via neuroplasticity and improve every day functioning.

In some embodiments to initiate a daily exercise session a user can push a button on one or more of the sensors and or select an option on for example the graphical display which can be a touch screen. If daily exercises have not been initiated by for example 6 PM a reminder message will be displayed on for example the graphical display . In some embodiments the reminder message can be a communicated as an audible and or vibrotactile message. When the patient initiates the exercise routine the sensor with a graphical display and or external device with a display can automatically progress through a therapist specified sequence of prescribed tasks as for example movement data is logged as discussed herein.

In some embodiments the movement data and or movement descriptors can be processed to quantify and qualify body movement as discussed herein by the sensor itself e.g. with a processor and memory and in some embodiments followed by transmission of the movement data and or movement descriptors to an external electronic device. In some embodiments the sensor can transmit raw unprocessed data to the external electronic device prior for processing and determination of movement data and or movement descriptors by software running on the electronic device. The sensor and or external electronic device can display the processed data to the user along with feedback and instructions regarding specific changes that the user should make for sensorimotor rehabilitation. Data transmission maybe wireless and or the sensor may be directly docked or connected e.g. via USB to the external electronic device for data offload.

As illustrated in at step it is determined whether the affected limb is used. If the affected limb is used at block the user can receive a reward message. The reward message can be displayed to the user on for example the graphical display and or can be communicated via audible and or vibrotactile messages. In some embodiments a cumulative number of daily affected limb movements can be displayed on for example the graphical display at block . The sensor having a watch form can be worn on the affected limb to help a user associate the cumulative usage number displayed with for example the affected limb.

If the affected limb is not used at step it is determined whether the actual ratio of affected to unaffected limb use is less than the desired and or predetermined ratio of affected to unaffected limb use . If is less than at block one or more of the sensors may provide an audible and or vibrotactile message to remind or encourage the patient to use the affected limb and or remind or encourage the patient not to use the unaffected limb. The sensor having a bracelet form can be worn on the unaffected limb to for example vibrate when the unaffected limb is not used and is less than as a deterrent message for using the affected limb or to vibrate when the unaffected limb is used as an encouragement for using the unaffected limb. In some embodiments a reminder message can be displayed on for example the graphical display to use the affected limb and or discourage use of the unaffected limb at block . The reminder message visual audible and or vibrotactile can communicate the and or ratio of to . If is equal to or greater than at block no feedback visual or tactile can be provided. In some embodiments the user can receive a reward message at block when is equal to or greater than . The reward message can be displayed to the user on for example the graphical display and or can be communicated via audible and or vibrotactile messages.

In some embodiments body segment movement data can be transmitted and displayed to a third party e.g. a clinician coach and or trainer . The third party can provide feedback to the wearer of the sensor . The data can be transmitted to the third party via wireless networks and or an internet interface. In some embodiments the sensor can be given to the third party for direct offloading of data e.g. via USB or other means .

In some embodiments including the illustrated embodiment the sensorimotor rehabilitation system includes a computer system and a sensor system housed in a sensor system packaging . The packaging can be any appropriate type of packaging and can be adapted to attach to the patient s shoulder upper arm elbow forearm wrist hand or fingers or associated clothing such as a sleeves gloves or the like. For instance the packaging can be similar to that shown with respect to the sensor and or the base of . The sensor system can include and in the illustrated embodiment does include one or more body worn sensors processing electronics biofeedback output and a communication interface .

The sensor s can be any of the sensors described herein including inertial sensors such as accelerometers and or gyroscopes and can also include other types of sensors including magnetometers. Depending on the embodiment combinations of any of the foregoing sensor types can be used.

The processing electronics can generally be configured to process the data received from the sensors and may include digital logic circuitry. For instance the processing electronics can be implemented using one or more microprocessors microcontrollers field programmable gate arrays FPGAs combinations of the same or the like. In some cases the processing electronics can also include appropriate analog circuitry e.g. front end circuitry including analog to digital converters and associated componentry for processing signals received from the sensors .

The processing electronics can include a microprocessor executing firmware or other programmable instructions configured to implement an algorithm for determining one or more characteristics associated with body segment movement e.g. upper limbs of a person wearing the sensors and or to provide feedback information related to the body segment movement e.g. feedback information related to one or more corrective actions for improving sensorimotor rehabilitation or performing exercises . The processing electronics can be designed to determine any of the characteristics described herein e.g. ratio of affected to unaffected limb use quantity and or type of movement exercise performance etc. and or provide information usable to generate any of the types of feedback described herein e.g. visual audible tactile etc. .

The biofeedback output is in communication with the processing electronics and in some cases directly with the sensors and can generally be configured to provide biofeedback to the user based on feedback information received from the processing electronics . For instance the biofeedback output can comprise a liquid crystal or other type of display for providing graphical feedback a touchscreen display one or more light emitting diodes or other visual indicators a speaker for providing audible feedback a vibration mechanism for providing tactile feedback or any combination thereof. In some embodiments the sensor system does not include the biofeedback output and instead communicates feedback information to the computer system which in turn outputs the biofeedback to the user. In some embodiments the computer system and the sensor system are both capable of providing biofeedback to the user.

The communication interface can include a wireless transceiver or transmitter for delivering information to the computer system over the communication link . The interface can support any appropriate protocol e.g. Bluetooth . In some cases the sensor system and the computer system communicate over a wired link instead of a wireless link.

The computer system can comprise one or more mobile devices or personal computers such as one or more mobile devices or computers that are Windows Macintosh Android iOS or Linux Unix compatible. In some embodiments the computer system comprises one or more servers desktop computers laptop computers personal digital assistants kiosks or mobile devices e.g. smartphones for example. The exemplary computer system includes a central processing unit CPU which may include one or more conventional microprocessors. The computer system can further include memory such as random access memory RAM for temporary storage of information and a read only memory ROM for permanent storage of information and or a mass storage device such as a hard drive diskette solid state drive or optical media storage device. The mass storage device may store data collected from a plurality of sensors or remotely collected sensor data and or calculated body segment parameter data from various trials. The components and modules of the computer system can be connected using a bus system . In some embodiments the bus system is compatible with one or more of Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Microchannel Small Computer System Interface SCSI Industrial Standard Architecture ISA and Extended ISA EISA architectures for example. In some embodiments the functionality provided for in the components and modules of the sensorimotor rehabilitation system may be combined into fewer components and modules or further separated into additional components and modules.

The computer system can be controlled and coordinated by operating system software such as Windows Server Linux Server Windows XP Windows Vista Windows 7 Unix Linux SunOS Solaris Android iOS or other compatible server desktop or mobile operating systems. In Macintosh systems the operating system may be any available operating system such as MAC OS X. In other embodiments the computer system may be controlled by a proprietary operating system. Conventional operating systems control and schedule computer processes for execution perform memory management provide file system networking I O services and provide a user interface such as a graphical user interface GUI among other things.

The computer system may include one or more commonly available input output I O devices and interfaces such as a keyboard mouse touchpad and printer. The I O devices may also include the one or more sensors worn on a user s body as described above. In some embodiments these devices may be linked physically to the system or may be linked wirelessly via interfaces such as Bluetooth.

The computer system can also include a biofeedback output which can be a separate from or form a part of the I O devices and interfaces and can include one or more display device such as a monitor that allows the visual presentation of data to a user e.g. the visual feedback user interface described above for providing visual feedback relating to body segment movement and or corrective actions for improving sensorimotor rehabilitation . More particularly a display device provides for the presentation of GUIs application software data and multimedia presentations for example. The biofeedback output can include one or more speakers and or tactile output devices e.g. vibration mechanisms for providing audible and tactile biofeedback respectively relating to body segment movement or corrective actions for improving sensorimotor rehabilitation.

The sensorimotor rehabilitation system may also include one or more multimedia devices video cards graphics accelerators and microphones for example. In some embodiments such as when the sensorimotor rehabilitation system comprises a network server for example the computing system may not include any of the above noted man machine I O devices.

In some embodiments the I O devices and interfaces provide a communication interface to various external devices. For example the sensorimotor rehabilitation system can electronically couple to the network which may comprise one or more of a LAN WAN or the Internet for example via a wired wireless or combination of wired and wireless communication link . The network can facilitate communications among various computing devices and or other electronic devices via wired or wireless communication links. The sensorimotor rehabilitation system may use network to receive sensor data collected remotely and transmit such resulting data back to the user. For example a user may wear sensors during activities of daily living. The sensors may be configured to transmit data through a wired or wireless connection to a mobile computing device e.g. a smartphone a laptop computer a tablet etc. . The mobile communication device may in turn transmit the collected sensor data via the network to the sensorimotor rehabilitation system which may as described above process the received data and provide feedback data back to the mobile computing device. The feedback data may then be used by the mobile computing device to display a visual feedback to the user e.g. via a user interface described above . In this manner the user can receive near instantaneous feedback of body segment movement. As shown the sensor system can also be in communication with the network . For instance the sensor system and the computer system in some embodiments are in communication with one another via a WAN LAN or other network via the link instead of communicating via the link .

As illustrated the functionality of the sensorimotor rehabilitation system can be distributed between the computer system and the sensor system . For instance in some embodiments the sensor system generally obtains sensor data relating to a person s body segment movement processes the sensor data to identify characteristics associated with the quantity or type of the body segment movement and or generates information for providing feedback regarding the quantity or type of the body segment movement such as feedback for improving sensorimotor rehabilitation. The computer system receives the feedback information and outputs the information using the biofeedback output . One benefit of this configuration is that relatively less information may be sent between the sensor system and the computer system as compared to a situation where the computer system processes the sensor data itself. For instance the processing electronics may generate relatively lightweight descriptors e.g. 8 bit or 16 bit descriptors or identifiers relating to certain identified body segment movement characteristics and or types of biofeedback which are forwarded to the computer system via the communication interface .

The functionality of the sensorimotor rehabilitation system can be distributed in other ways depending on the embodiment. For example in some cases the processing electronics is not included or performs minimal processing on the data obtained from the sensor . The sensor data is forwarded to the computer system which implements the algorithm for analyzing body segment movement generating feedback information and the like. In other cases such as where the sensor system includes the biofeedback output the entire sensorimotor rehabilitation system resides in the sensor system packaging and a separate computer system is not used.

In addition to the devices that are illustrated in for example the sensorimotor rehabilitation system may communicate with other data sources or other computing devices. For example collected data may be stored in a local or remote database by the sensorimotor rehabilitation system so that a user s performance can be tracked over time.

The sensorimotor rehabilitation system may also include one or more software modules to process perform the functionalities discussed herein for example the methods and processes in . The software module may be stored in mass storage and or memory and implemented as one or more modules which may include by way of example components such as software components object oriented software components class components and task components processes functions attributes procedures subroutines segments of program code drivers firmware microcode circuitry data databases data structures tables arrays and variables. Alternately the software module may be implemented as separate devices such as computer servers. In alternate embodiments the postural and balance evaluation system can be implemented by multiple physical computers that are interconnected with different functions or tasks optionally handled by different machines.

In general the word module as used herein refers to logic embodied in hardware or firmware or to a collection of software instructions possibly having entry and exit points written in a programming language such as for example Java Lua C or C . A software module may be compiled and linked into an executable program installed in a dynamic link library or may be written in an interpreted programming language such as for example BASIC Perl or Python. It will be appreciated that software modules may be callable from other modules or from themselves and or may be invoked in response to detected events or interrupts. Software instructions may be embedded in firmware such as an EPROM. It will be further appreciated that hardware modules may be comprised of connected logic units such as gates and flip flops and or may be comprised of programmable units such as programmable gate arrays or processors. The modules described herein are preferably implemented as software modules but may be represented in hardware or firmware. Generally the modules described herein refer to logical modules that may be combined with other modules or divided into sub modules despite their physical organization or storage.

In some embodiments the sensorimotor rehabilitation system can provide a log of usage e.g. body movement of the affected and the unaffected limbs in for example a log mode of operation. This information e.g. usage log usage indication usage number and or usage score can be relayed to the patient and or to a caregiver so that they are aware of their relative usage of each limb over an extended period of time e.g. one day multiple days and or one week and can thus use this information to help achieve targeted limb usage goals e.g. use the affected limb 75 of the time as discussed herein. In some embodiments the usage log for each limb can include a history of specific movements e.g. reaching writing eating or performing prescribed rehabilitative exercises and or the like as discussed herein . In some embodiments the usage score e.g. performance score can indicate a level of compliance of the patient with the prescribed predetermined and or desired sensorimotor rehabilitation therapy such as for example performance of the rehabilitation exercises e.g. percent of prescribed rehabilitation exercises performed and or quantity of body movement during ADLs e.g. ratio of affected limb movement to unaffected limb movement .

In some embodiments the usage log can be displayed on the sensors as discussed herein e.g. a graphical display on each sensor indicates the accumulation of movements for the associated limb such as the limb that a particular sensor is being worn on . The usage log can be periodically reset e.g. each day or each week . In some embodiments the usage log can be provided to the user via an external electronic device such as a personal computer mobile phone tablet computer or other electronic device as discussed herein. In some embodiments data can be transmitted and displayed to a third party e.g. a therapist and then the third party can provide feedback to the wearer. The data corresponding to the usage log can be transmitted to the third party via wireless networks and or an internet interface and or the sensor can be given to the third party for direct offloading of data e.g. via USB or other means as discussed herein.

As illustrated in the sensorimotor rehabilitation system can have a base station . The base station can plug into a wall outlet in the patient s home and automatically transmit data to a secure website via links and network e.g. server . The secure website can be viewed via the computer system where therapists can for example view movement data adjust exercise plans and or set patient specific goals for the use of the affected limb. Therapists can timely intervene if patients are not complying with prescribed at home exercises and or are not attempting to use their affected limb frequently enough during regular activities. In some embodiments patients can access the same secure website or modified website e.g. patient is not able to adjust patient specific goals . For some patients seeing movement activities logged on a website and rehabilitation progress can be motivating to continue with sensorimotor therapy.

The base station can receive daily or other periods as discussed herein movement summaries from the sensor system . The base station can upload the data via WiFi or LAN e.g. link to a HIPAA compliant server e.g. a cloud based system where a physician and or patient can securely access the website to view movement data adjust exercise plans and or set patient specific goals for the use of the affected limb. For example at the start of sensorimotor rehabilitation therapy the patient can be encouraged to use the affected limb 90 of the time to promote motor recovery traditional CIMT consists of constraining the affected limb for up to 90 of waking hours . Over time as sensorimotor rehabilitation therapy progresses the target for daily use of the affected limb can be changed or adjusted by the therapist to reflect the recovery process. Remote adjustment of patient specific goals can extend the treatment period via prolonged biofeedback e.g. for several months after for example the initial prescribed period of extremely limited use of the unaffected limb e.g. 2 weeks . Remote adjustment of patient specific goals can reduce frequency of clinical visits throughout sensorimotor rehabilitation therapy.

The base station can be a maintenance free or substantially maintenance free device from the patient s perspective that can placed in a home of the patient. The base station can receive movement data via for example Bluetooth low energy protocol BLE from a sensor system e.g. a sensor having a watch form . In some embodiments the link can be an extended wireless protocol such as for example Wi Fi. The base station can transfer the data over an Internet connection via link as discussed herein to a remote server . The transfer to and or from the base station can be done at any desired or predetermined frequency such as for example hourly 4 times a day 2 times a day daily biweekly weekly etc.

The base station can have a computer system as discussed herein. In some embodiments the base station can have a display or connect to a display to show movement data and related information as discussed herein. In some embodiments the patient does not interact with the base station . The base station can act a standalone device for transferring body movement data as discussed herein without patient interaction. The base station can be powered through a standard electrical outlet and or operate on battery power for portability. The base station can access the Internet through wired Ethernet Wi Fi 3G 4G mobile Internet services and or the like.

In some embodiments the base station can have a plug computer platform with for example a 1.2 GHz ARM family CPU 512 MB memory capacity and expandable flash storage. The base station can maintain reliable communication channels with the sensor system and server as discussed herein. For example the base station can have a Debian based Embedded Linux operating system built for ARM based RISC. A status report client can allow the base station to collect maintenance data from the sensor system and pass that information on the server for review by for example a clinician. A local configuration module can allow the server to remotely reconfigure the base station and the sensor system for maintenance purposes such as firmware upgrades as well as to change prescribed exercise routines and adjust biofeedback rules.

As illustrated in when the sensorimotor rehabilitation system is utilized with one or more sensor system packages e.g. one or more sensor systems the sensor systems can pair and communicate via any suitable wired and or wireless protocol between the sensor system systems and or base station . The wireless communication protocol can be BLE as discussed herein to for example extend the battery life of the sensor system . In some embodiments the wireless communication protocol can be Wi Fi to for example extend the range of communication between the base station and at least one of the sensor systems worn by the patient.

The following is a list of example embodiments. The features recited in the below list of example embodiments can be combined with additional features disclosed herein. Furthermore additional inventive combinations of features are disclosed herein which are not specifically recited in the below list of example embodiments and which do not include the same features as the specific embodiments listed below. For sake of brevity the below list of example embodiments does not identify every inventive aspect of this disclosure. The below list of example embodiments are not intended to identify key features or essential features of any subject matter described herein.

2. The method of Embodiment 1 wherein the feedback is indicative of a corrective action for improving sensorimotor rehabilitation.

3. The method of Embodiment 1 wherein the inertial sensor is attached to a wrist of the affected upper limb of the person.

4. The method of Embodiment 1 wherein the inertial sensor is attached to a finger of the person a hand of the person a wrist of the person a forearm of the person or an upper arm of the person

5. The method of Embodiment 1 wherein the one or more signals are generated by at least two inertial sensors wherein a first inertial sensor of the at least two inertial sensors is supported at a first position on the affected upper limb of the person and a second inertial sensor of the at least two inertial sensors is supported at a second position on an unaffected upper limb of the person and the affected limb exhibits more limited motor control than the unaffected limb due to nervous system damage of the person.

6. The method of Embodiment 5 wherein the characteristic is associated with the quantity of upper limb movement of the person and wherein the characteristic comprises a ratio of affected upper limb movement to unaffected upper limb movement.

7. The method of Embodiment 6 wherein the ratio of affected upper limb movement to unaffected upper limb movement is associated with a quantity of one or more types or groups of upper limb movements.

8. The method of Embodiment 6 wherein a packaging containing at least one of the at least two inertial sensors comprises a graphical display configured to display the ratio of affected upper limb movement to unaffected upper limb movement.

9. The method of Embodiment 6 further comprising displaying a reward message in association with the first sensor when the ratio of affected upper limb movement to unaffected upper limb movement is above a predetermined ratio.

10. The method of Embodiment 6 further comprising vibrating a packaging that supports the second sensor to generate a vibrotactile message when the ratio of affected upper limb movement to unaffected upper limb movement is below a predetermined ratio to discourage use of the unaffected upper limb.

11. The method of Embodiment 6 further comprising vibrating a packaging that supports at least one of the at least two inertial sensors to generate a vibrotactile message when the ratio of affected upper limb movement to unaffected upper limb movement is below a predetermined ratio to discourage use of the unaffected upper limb.

12. The method of Embodiment 6 wherein a packaging containing the second sensor does not comprise a graphical display.

13. The method of Embodiment 6 wherein at least one of the at least two inertial sensors is configured to provide at least one of auditory positive feedback visual positive feedback or tactile positive feedback to the user when the ratio of affected upper limb movement to unaffected upper limb movement is equal to or greater than a predetermined ratio or configured to provide at least one of auditory negative feedback visual negative feedback or tactile negative feedback to the user when the ratio of affected upper limb movement to unaffected upper limb movement is less than a predetermined ratio.

14. The method of Embodiment 1 wherein the characteristic is associated with the quantity of upper limb movement of the person and wherein the quantity of upper limb movement of the person is associated with a quantity of one or more types or groups of upper limb movements.

15. The method of Embodiment 14 further comprising with the processing electronics determining the one or more types or groups of upper limb movements by at least one of 

16. The method of Embodiment 14 further comprising displaying a sequence of images depicting a sensorimotor rehabilitation exercise to be performed by the person the sensorimotor rehabilitation exercise comprising the one or more types or groups of upper limb movements.

17. The method of Embodiment 16 wherein the sequence of images change to reflect changes in upper limb movement that are identified by the processing during the sensorimotor rehabilitation exercise.

18. The method of Embodiment 1 wherein the characteristic is associated with the type of upper limb movement of the person which tracks sensorimotor rehabilitation progress.

19. The method of Embodiment 18 wherein the characteristic comprises a rehabilitation progress score indicating sensorimotor rehabilitation progress during a sensorimotor rehabilitation exercise.

20. The method of Embodiment 1 further comprising wirelessly transmitting to a separate computer system the information usable to present the feedback.

21. The method of Embodiment 1 wherein the one or more signals are generated by at least two inertial sensors and wherein the identified characteristic comprises a ratio of upper limb movements of the person.

22. The method of Embodiment 1 wherein the generating feedback information comprises generating the feedback information for real time presentation.

23. The method of Embodiment 1 wherein the generating feedback information further comprises generating information for use in generating a graphical depiction of a predetermined upper limb movement which changes to reflect changes in upper limb movement that are identified by the processing the graphical depiction associated with a sensorimotor rehabilitation exercise.

24. The method of Embodiment 1 wherein the generating feedback information comprises generating audible feedback indicative of one or more of the identified characteristic and a suggested corrective action.

25. The method of Embodiment 1 wherein the generating feedback information comprises generating visual feedback indicative of one or more of the identified characteristic and a suggested corrective action.

26. The method of Embodiment 1 wherein the generating feedback information comprises electronically storing the feedback information for later access of the feedback information.

27. The method of Embodiment 1 further comprising logging the information over a predetermined period of time for later access of the feedback information wherein the feedback comprises a usage log of the affected upper limb over the predetermined period of time based at least in part on the identified characteristic.

28. The method of Embodiment 27 further comprising determining a performance score based on the logged information indicating a level of compliance of the patient with sensorimotor rehabilitation therapy.

29. The method of Embodiment 1 wherein the generating feedback information comprises generating tactile or vibrotactile feedback indicative of one or more of the identified characteristic and a suggested corrective action.

30. The method of Embodiment 1 wherein the method exclusively utilizes sensors supported by the person s body.

31. The method of Embodiment 1 wherein the method does not involve constraining upper limb movement of the person.

35. The system of Embodiment 34 wherein the inertial sensor and the processing electronics are housed together in a packaging.

36. The system of Embodiment 35 wherein the packaging comprises an attachment mechanism configured to allow the packaging to be attached to one or more of the wrist the forearm and the upper arm of the person.

37. The system of Embodiment 34 wherein the inertial sensor is housed in a packaging comprising an engagement mechanism configured to mate with a mounting unit to releasably secure the packaging to a sensor mount unit attached to the person or to an article of the person s clothing.

38. The system of Embodiment 37 wherein the sensor mount unit includes one or more holes each dimensioned to pass a band therethrough thereby allowing the mount unit to be fastened around a limb of the person.

39. The system of Embodiment 34 further comprising a wireless transmitter configured to send to a separate computer system the information usable to present the feedback.

40. The system of Embodiment 34 wherein at least a portion of the processing electronics resides in a computer system that is separate from a housing that contains the inertial sensor.

41. The system of Embodiment 34 wherein the processing electronics are configured to generate the feedback information for real time presentation.

42. The system of Embodiment 34 wherein the feedback information is usable to generate audible feedback indicative of one or more of the identified characteristic and a suggested corrective action.

43. The system of Embodiment 34 wherein the feedback information is usable to generate visual feedback indicative of one or more of the identified characteristic and a suggested corrective action.

44. The system of Embodiment 34 wherein the processing electronics are further configured to electronically store the feedback information for later access of the feedback information.

45. The system of Embodiment 34 wherein the processing electronics are further configured to electronically store the feedback information over a predetermined period of time for later access of the feedback information wherein the feedback information comprises a usage indication of limb movement over the predetermined period of time based at least in part on the identified characteristic.

46. The system of Embodiment 34 wherein the processing electronics are further configured to generate tactile or vibrotactile feedback information indicative of one or more of the identified characteristic and a suggested corrective action.

47. The system of Embodiment 34 wherein the feedback is indicative of a corrective action for improving sensorimotor rehabilitation.

48. The system of Embodiment 34 wherein the inertial sensor is attached to the wrist of an upper limb of the person.

49. The system of Embodiment 34 wherein the one or more signals are generated by at least two inertial sensors wherein a first inertial sensor of the at least two inertial sensors is supported at a first position on the affected upper limb of the person and a second inertial sensor of the at least two inertial sensors is supported at a second position on an unaffected upper limb of the person and the affected limb exhibits more limited motor control than the unaffected limb due to nervous system damage of the person.

50. The system of Embodiment 49 wherein the characteristic is associated with the quantity of upper limb movement of the person and wherein the characteristic comprises a ratio of affected upper limb movement to unaffected upper limb movement.

51. The system of Embodiment 50 wherein the ratio of affected upper limb movement to unaffected upper limb movement is associated with a quantity of one or more types or groups of upper limb movements.

52. The system of Embodiment 50 wherein a packaging containing at least one of the at least two inertial sensors comprises a graphical display configured to display the ratio of affected upper limb movement to unaffected upper limb movement.

53. The system of Embodiment 50 wherein a packaging containing the first sensor comprises a graphical display configured to display the ratio of affected upper limb movement to unaffected upper limb movement.

54. The system of Embodiment 50 wherein a packaging containing at least one of the at least two inertial sensors comprises a graphical display configured to display a reward message when the ratio of affected upper limb movement to unaffected upper limb movement is above a predetermined ratio.

55. The system of Embodiment 50 wherein a packaging containing the first sensor comprises a graphical display configured to display a reward message when the ratio of affected upper limb movement to unaffected upper limb movement is above a predetermined ratio.

56. The system of Embodiment 50 wherein at least one of the at least two inertial sensors is configured to provide at least one of auditory positive feedback visual positive feedback or tactile positive feedback to the user when the ratio of affected upper limb movement to unaffected upper limb movement is equal to or greater than a predetermined ratio or configured to provide at least one of auditory negative feedback visual negative feedback or tactile negative feedback to the user when the ratio of affected upper limb movement to unaffected upper limb movement is less than a predetermined ratio.

57. The system of Embodiment 49 wherein a packaging containing at least one of the at least two inertial sensors comprises a vibration mechanism configured to generate a vibrotactile message when the ratio of affected upper limb movement to unaffected upper limb movement is below a predetermined ratio to discourage use of the unaffected upper limb.

58. The system of Embodiment 49 wherein a packaging containing the second sensor comprises a vibration mechanism configured to generate a vibrotactile message when the ratio of affected upper limb movement to unaffected upper limb movement is below a predetermined ratio to discourage use of the unaffected upper limb.

59. The system of Embodiment 49 wherein a packaging containing the second sensor does not comprise a graphical display.

60. The system of Embodiment 34 wherein the characteristic is associated with the type of limb movement of the person which tracks sensorimotor rehabilitation progress.

61. The system of Embodiment 34 wherein the characteristic comprises a rehabilitation progress score indicating sensorimotor rehabilitation.

62. The system of Embodiment 34 wherein the characteristic is associated with the quantity of upper limb movement of the person and wherein the quantity of upper limb movement of the person is associated with a quantity of one or more types or groups of upper limb movements.

63. The system of Embodiment 62 wherein the processing electronics are further configured to determine the one or more types or groups of upper limb movements by at least one of 

64. The system of Embodiment 62 wherein a packaging containing the first sensor comprises a graphical display configured to display a sequence of images depicting a sensorimotor rehabilitation exercise to be performed by the person the sensorimotor rehabilitation exercise comprising the one or more types or groups of upper limb movements.

65. The system of Embodiment 64 wherein the sequence of images changes to reflect changes in upper limb movement that are identified by the processing during the sensorimotor rehabilitation exercise.

66. The system of Embodiment 34 wherein the one or more signals are generated by at least two inertial sensors and wherein the identified characteristic comprises a ratio of upper limb movements of the person.

67. The system of Embodiment 34 wherein the processing electronics generates the feedback information by generating information for use in generating a graphical depiction of a predetermined limb movement which changes to reflect changes in limb movement that are identified by the processing the graphical depiction associated with a sensorimotor rehabilitation exercise.

68. The system of Embodiment 34 wherein the system exclusively utilizes sensors supported by the person s body.

71. The system of Embodiment 34 wherein the processing electronics are further configured to log the information over a predetermined period of time for later access of the feedback information wherein the feedback comprises a usage log of the affected upper limb over the predetermined period of time based at least in part on the identified characteristic.

72. The system of Embodiment 71 wherein the processing electronics are further configured to determine a performance score based on the logged information indicating a level of compliance of the patient with sensorimotor rehabilitation therapy.

73. Non transitory computer storage that stores executable code that directs computer hardware to at least 

75. The system of Embodiment 74 wherein the feedback is a vibrotactile message and the feedback unit comprises a vibrotacitle motor configured to output the vibrotactile message

76. The system of Embodiment 74 wherein the feedback is a graphical depiction and the feedback unit comprises an electronic display screen configured to display the graphical depiction.

77. The system of Embodiment 74 wherein the feedback is audible feedback and the feedback unit comprises a speaker.

78. The system of Embodiment 74 wherein the data relating to the motor function of the person comprises one or more descriptors each representative of a particular characteristic associated with motor function.

79. The system of Embodiment 74 wherein the system is a computer system contained in a separate housing than the at least one inertial sensor.

80. Non transitory computer storage that stores executable code that directs computer hardware to at least 

Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

The ranges disclosed herein also encompass any and all overlap sub ranges and combinations thereof. Language such as up to at least greater than less than between and the like includes the number recited. Numbers preceded by a term such as approximately about and substantially as used herein include the recited numbers and also represent an amount close to the stated amount that still performs a desired function or achieves a desired result. For example the terms approximately about and substantially may refer to an amount that is within less than 10 of within less than 5 of within less than 1 of within less than 0.1 of and within less than 0.01 of the stated amount.

Depending on the embodiment certain acts events or functions of any of the algorithms described herein can be performed in a different sequence can be added merged or left out altogether e.g. not all described acts or events are necessary for the practice of the algorithms . Moreover in certain embodiments acts or events can be performed concurrently e.g. through multi threaded processing interrupt processing or multiple processors or processor cores or on other parallel architectures rather than sequentially.

Systems and modules described herein may comprise software firmware hardware or any combination s of software firmware or hardware suitable for the purposes described herein. Software and other modules may reside on servers workstations personal computers computerized tablets PDAs and other devices suitable for the purposes described herein. Software and other modules may be accessible via local memory via a network via a browser or via other means suitable for the purposes described herein. Data structures described herein may comprise computer files variables programming arrays programming structures or any electronic information storage schemes or methods or any combinations thereof suitable for the purposes described herein. User interface elements described herein may comprise elements from graphical user interfaces command line interfaces and other suitable interfaces.

Further the processing of the various components of the illustrated systems can be distributed across multiple machines networks and other computing resources. In addition two or more components of a system can be combined into fewer components. Various components of the illustrated systems can be implemented in one or more virtual machines rather than in dedicated computer hardware systems. Likewise the data repositories shown can represent physical and or logical data storage including for example storage area networks or other distributed storage systems. Moreover in some embodiments the connections between the components shown represent possible paths of data flow rather than actual connections between hardware. While some examples of possible connections are shown any of the subset of the components shown can communicate with any other subset of components in various implementations.

Embodiments are also described above with reference to flow chart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products. Each block of the flow chart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flow chart illustrations and or block diagrams may be implemented by computer program instructions. Such instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the acts specified in the flow chart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to operate in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the acts specified in the flow chart and or block diagram block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operations to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the acts specified in the flow chart and or block diagram block or blocks.

While certain embodiments have been described these embodiments have been presented by way of example only and are not intended to limit the scope of the disclosure. Indeed the novel methods and systems described herein may be embodied in a variety of other forms furthermore various omissions substitutions and changes in the form of the described methods and systems may be made without departing from the spirit of the disclosure. The accompanying claims and their equivalents are intended to cover such forms or modifications as would fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosure.

The terms affected limb and unaffected limb are used to refer to the upper limbs of an individual who has an upper extremity motor impairment. For individuals with a symmetric impairment that is the right and left upper limbs have a relatively equal level of impairment then both limbs would be termed affected limbs. For individuals with an asymmetric motor impairment that is one limb has a more significant motor impairment than the other limb then the more impaired limb is termed affected and the less impaired limb is termed unaffected even if both limbs have some level of impairment.

