---

title: Secondary communications channel facilitating document security
abstract: Disclosed are various embodiments for facilitating the sharing of files or documents on behalf of a sending user to a recipient user. A secured file is transmitted to a recipient user via a primary communication identifier. A security key that can be utilized to decrypt or unlock the file is transmitted to a secondary communication identifier, which can be automatically identified. In this way, security of the file can be maintained in the event that one of the communications channels corresponding to the primary communication identifier or secondary communication identifier is compromised.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09537842&OS=09537842&RS=09537842
owner: AirWatch LLC
number: 09537842
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141223
---
Users may wish to share documents or other files with other users in a secure manner. In some cases a user sharing a document may wish to protect the document with a password or key that must be employed by the recipient in order to open or access the document. In some cases such a password or key can be pre shared between the sending user and the recipient.

Users sharing documents or other types of files may wish to secure the contents of those files to prevent access to the files by unauthorized users. Files may be secured by applying an encryption process based upon a security key where the file is encrypted utilizing a security key such that in order to be accessed the file must be decrypted with the security key. In some scenarios a user may wish to utilize public key private key encryption methodologies where a file is encrypted using a public key and must be decrypted using a private key that corresponds to the public key in order for the file to be accessed. Files can also be secured by utilizing a password protection process that may not involve encryption of the file. For example a binary file that is encoded in a proprietary or open format that is viewable by a reader or editor such as a file format supported by MICROSOFT WORD ADOBE ACROBAT or other software programs can be password protected such that in order to be accessed using a reader or editor program a correct password must be supplied by a user attempting to access the file.

Accordingly the sharing of such files among users of an enterprise or among users of different enterprises often involves the exchange of a secured file that is encrypted or password protected as well as the exchange of a security key such as a decryption key or a password that should be used to decrypt or otherwise access or open the file. In many cases a copy of the file and security key may be shared by a sharing user to a recipient user in an email message instant message short message service SMS message or other form of messaging or communication. In some scenarios a secured file and a corresponding security key may be shared by the user in a single message or communication which can render the security applied to the file nearly useless if the communication is compromised as an unauthorized user would then have access to the file as well as the security key that provides the ability for the unauthorized user to access the file.

Accordingly embodiments of the present disclosure can facilitate the sharing of a file from a sending user to a recipient as well as the sharing of a security key associated with the file in a manner that improves the security of the security key. As one example a file can be encrypted or otherwise secured using a security key and is selected by a sending user and or generated on behalf of the sending user. The secured file can be transmitted to the recipient user with which the sending user wishes to share the file using a primary communication identifier such as an email address that is selected by the sending user. The security key can be transmitted to the recipient user using a secondary communication identifier such as a phone number instant messaging user identifier or any other identifier that corresponds to a communications channel that is separate from the communications channel to which the primary communication identifier corresponds. In this way embodiments of the disclosure can facilitate the sharing of files among users while facilitating security of a security key that is employed to encrypt and or secure the file.

With reference to shown is a networked environment according to various embodiments. The networked environment includes one or more computing devices and which are in data communication with each other via a network . The network includes for example the Internet one or more intranets extranets wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs wired networks wireless networks other suitable networks or any combination of two or more such networks. For example such networks may comprise satellite networks cable networks Ethernet networks telephony networks and other types of networks. In the depicted example of the computing device and are shown merely for illustrative purposes to describe how embodiments of the disclosure may operate. It should be appreciated that computing devices can be deployed in various ways and that the depicted illustration is non limiting.

Various applications and or other functionality may be executed in the computing device according to various embodiments. Also various data is stored in a data store that is accessible to the computing device . The data store may be representative of memory of the computing device mass storage resources of the computing device or any other storage resources on which data may be stored by the computing device . The data store may also be representative of a plurality of data stores as can be appreciated. The data stored in the data store for example is associated with the operation of the various applications and or functional entities described below.

The components executed on the computing device for example include a document sharing application and other applications services processes systems engines or functionality not discussed in detail herein. The document sharing application is executed to facilitate the sharing of documents from a sending user to a recipient user according to various embodiments of the disclosure. Embodiments of the disclosure can also operate to secure a file with a security key and subsequently transmit the secured file and security key to a recipient via separate communications channels. For example a secured file can be generated by the document sharing application and sent to a recipient s email address while the security key that can be used to unlock or decrypt the secured file can be sent to the recipient s phone number via an SMS message. In this way the secured file and the security key are sent to the recipient via separate communications channels in order to reduce the possibility that the secured file will be compromised in the event that the email message to which the secured file is attached is compromised.

In some embodiments the document sharing application can comprise functionality that is embedded within other applications or distributed as a plug in that is compatible with other software. For example an email client such as MICROSOFT OUTLOOK may include the functionality associated with the document sharing application as described herein as logic that is embedded within the email client or as a third party plug in. As another example the functionality of the document sharing application can be embedded within an application with which a document is created authored and or edited such as MICROSOFT WORD MICROSOFT POWERPOINT etc. as logic that is embedded within the software or as a third party plug in.

The data stored in the data store includes for example user data document data and potentially other data. The user data can include data associated with a user account such as contact data and potentially other data. In some embodiments user data can also include email calendar data or other user data that may be stored on a user s device. For example user data can also include access settings such as authentication credentials delegation settings e.g. information about other users who may be provided access to the user data of a particular user user profile information location data or any other forms of user data.

Contact data can include personal information manager PIM or address book data related to contacts of a particular user. Information about users can be stored as a contact entry and include various communication identifiers that can be used by various applications executed by the computing device in order to communicate with contacts of a user. In the context of this disclosure a communication identifier can include for example internal or external email addresses telephone numbers user identifiers associated with social networking or messaging services mailing addresses contact notes and other information associated with contacts that a user may wish to maintain in an address book or contacts store. In some scenarios a contact entry can also include a user identifier of a particular user within an enterprise storage service. Contact data can also include user specific address book data as well as global address book data for address books that are shared among multiple users in a domain and or enterprise. Additionally a contact entry associated with a particular contact of a user can also include data with respect to a frequency or volume of communications with a user as well as which of multiple communication identifiers are most often used to communicate with a particular contact. The contact entry can also include data that identifies which of multiple communication identifiers associated with a contact was most recently used to communicate with a particular contact.

Document data can include one or more files that can be stored on behalf of a user in storage accessible to the computing device . Files can represent documents media or any other data that can be stored in a file system or storage accessible to the computing device . Files can be associated with a security key which can represent a password encryption key or any other data that can be used to generate an encrypted or secured version of the file .

The computing device is representative one or more computing devices that may be associated with a recipient user to whom a sending user can share a particular file via the document sharing application . The computing device may comprise for example a processor based system such as a computer system that may be embodied in the form of a desktop computer a laptop computer a personal digital assistant a cellular telephone a smartphone a set top box a music player a web pad a tablet computer system a game console an electronic book reader or any other device with like capability. The computing device may include a display that comprises for example one or more devices such as liquid crystal display LCD displays gas plasma based flat panel displays organic light emitting diode OLED displays LCD projectors or other types of display devices.

The computing device may be configured to execute various applications such as a primary communication application and a secondary communication application . The primary communication application and secondary communication application can comprise any client that is configured to receive communications that are directed to communication identifiers associated with the recipient user in a contact entry of the sending user. For example the primary communication application may comprise a mail client that is executed to facilitate access to the email of the recipient user while the secondary communication application may comprise a messaging application that is executed to facilitate access to the SMS messages of the recipient user. The primary communication application and secondary communication application can also take the forms of other types of applications such as a social networking application an instant messaging application a browser etc.

The distinction between a primary communication application and secondary communication application is depicted in the drawings merely for illustrative purposes and to indicate that communications initiated by the computing device can be sent to a recipient user and be received in distinct communications channels by the recipient user. In some scenarios the primary communication application such as an email client may be executed by one computing device and the secondary communication application such as an SMS application may be executed by a different computing device associated with the recipient user. In another scenario the primary communication application or secondary communication application can be executed in separate virtual machines executed by the computing device . In yet another scenario the primary communication application or secondary communication application may comprise an application that communicates with the document sharing application in a secure communications channel such that for example an application facilitating decryption of a secured file can extract the security key from the secondary communication application without user intervention.

Next a general description of the operation of the various components of the networked environment is provided. To begin the document sharing application can facilitate the sharing of files or documents between a sending user that may be associated with the computing device and a recipient user that may be associated with the other computing device depicted in the example of . Accordingly the document sharing application can obtain a request to share a file with a recipient user on behalf of a sending user. Such a request can be obtained via a user interface generated by the document sharing application or any other application embedded with logic that generates such a request. For example a shell command can be included within an operating system that allows a user to initiate a request to share a file via a file explorer. In some embodiments the document sharing application can be invoked via a website providing access to document data associated with a user such as a file storage service. In such a scenario a sharing user can initiate a request to share a file via the document sharing application by following a user interface element or a link provided in a user interface generated by the website.

Upon receiving a request to share a file with another user such as a recipient user the document sharing application can identify a primary communication identifier associated with the recipient user. The primary communication identifier can be provided by the sharing user via a user interface. For example a sharing user can select a file to share with a recipient user and to provide or select an email address of the recipient user. The primary communication identifier can also comprise a phone number or a user identifier in a social networking service file storage service file sharing service messaging service or any other system in which an identifier can be stored in a contact entry of the recipient user. In some examples the primary communication identifier may comprise a storage location accessible by a browser or other type of application e.g. the primary communication application from which the secured file can be retrieved by the computing device .

The document sharing application can also generate or obtain the security key that corresponds to the file and from which a secured file can be generated by the document sharing application . The security key can comprise an encryption key or password that is either automatically generated by the document sharing application or obtained from the sharing user via a user interface element or an application programming interface API call received from another application or service that obtains or generates the security key .

The document sharing application can then generate a secured file by securing or encrypting the file which can comprise an encrypted file or a password protected version of the file using the security key . The secured file can be transmitted to the primary communication identifier to the computing device associated with the recipient user. The document sharing application can also identify a secondary communication identifier from a contact entry associated with the recipient user. The document sharing application can identify the recipient user by determining whether the primary communication identifier corresponding to the request to share the file is associated with a contact entry that includes other communication identifiers that are separate from the primary communication identifier. In one embodiment the document sharing application can identify a secondary communication identifier by identifying communication identifiers that are associated with a different type of communication channel relative to a communication channel associated with the primary communication identifier.

For example should the primary communication identifier represent an email address the document sharing application can identify a secondary communication identifier by identifying a different email address than the primary communication identifier. As another example should the primary communication identifier represent an email address the document sharing application can identify a secondary communication identifier by identifying a mobile phone number or other type of phone number that is associated with a contact entry in which the primary communication identifier is stored. As another example should the primary communication identifier represent a user identifier in a social networking system a file storage service etc. the document sharing application can identify a secondary communication identifier by identifying an email address a mobile phone number or other type of communication identifier that varies from the primary communication identifier and that is associated with a contact entry in which the primary communication identifier is stored.

Accordingly the document sharing application can transmit the secured file to the recipient user using the primary communication identifier and the security key needed to access or decrypt the secured file to the recipient user using the secondary communication identifier. In this way the secured file is not communicated using the same communications channel as the security key . Therefore should the communications channel to which the primary communication identifier corresponds be compromised the security key may be kept secure as long as the communications channel corresponding to the secondary communication identifier is not also compromised. To this end the document sharing application can be configured to only transmit the security key using a particular type of communications channel to address security concerns. For example the document sharing application can avoid sending the security key via electronic mail or to certain electronic mail domains. As another example the document sharing application can avoid sending the security key using any other type of communications channel that an administrator can deem insecure.

Accordingly the computing device can receive the secured file via the primary communication application or an application that corresponds to the primary communication identifier. The computing device can receive the security key via the secondary communication application or an application that corresponds to the secondary communication application . As noted above the primary communication application and secondary communication application may be executed by different computing devices associated with the recipient user. For example a recipient user may receive email on a first computing device such as a personal computer and receive SMS messages on another computing device such as a smartphone. In such a scenario the primary communication application and secondary communication application are executed by different computing devices.

Referring next to shown is an example sequence diagram that illustrates one example of interactions between the various components illustrated in the example networked environment of . illustrates an example of a computing device that has received a request to share a file on behalf of a sending user. As shown in the document sharing application executed by the computing device generates a security key in response to receiving such a request. The security key can be automatically generated by the document sharing application using an algorithm specified by an encryption standard or be supplied by the sending user initiating the request to share a file .

The document sharing application can then generate a secured document that corresponds to the file associated with the request. The secured file can be generated using the security key by applying an encryption algorithm or applying a password protection capability supported by the document sharing application . The document sharing application can then identify communication identifiers corresponding to the recipient user with which the secured file will be shared. A primary communication identifier with which the secured file is transmitted can be supplied when a sending user initiates the request. In some embodiments the document sharing application can automatically identify the primary communication identifier as well as the secondary communication identifier based upon a volume or frequency of communications with a particular communication identifier from a contact entry associated with a recipient user.

For example the document sharing application can select a particular communication identifier from a contact entry associated with the recipient user as the primary communication identifier when the contact entry indicates that the particular communication identifier is associated with the highest volume and or frequency of communications between the sending user and recipient user. In the event that the sending user selects or supplies the primary communication identifier the document sharing application can select a particular communication identifier from a contact entry associated with the recipient user as the secondary communication identifier when the contact entry indicates that the particular communication identifier is associated with the highest volume and or frequency of communications between the sending user and recipient user. In some embodiments the document sharing application can also receive a selection of the secondary communication identifier from the sending user. In some examples the document sharing application can be configured to only accept certain types of secondary communication identifiers to which the security key is transmitted to address security concerns. For example the document sharing application can avoid sending the security key via electronic mail or to certain electronic mail domains. As another example the document sharing application can avoid sending the security key using any other type of communications channel that an administrator can deem insecure.

Upon identifying the primary communication identifier and secondary communication identifier the document sharing application can transmit the secured file to the computing device which can receive the secured file via the primary communication application . The document sharing application can transmit the security key corresponding to the secured file to the computing device associated with the recipient user to the secondary communication identifier. The computing device can receive the security key via the secondary communication application .

Referring next to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the document sharing application according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the document sharing application as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of elements of a method implemented in the computing device according to one or more embodiments. Functionality attributed to the document sharing application can be implemented in a single process or application executed by the computing device and or multiple processes or applications. The separation or segmentation of functionality as discussed herein is presented for illustrative purposes only.

Beginning with box the document sharing application can obtain a request to share a file with a recipient user on behalf of a sending user. At box the document sharing application can generate a security key that corresponds to the file . As noted above in some scenarios the document sharing application can obtain the security key from the sending user. At box the document sharing application can generate a secured file that is based upon the security key and the file that the sending user requested to share with the recipient user. As noted above the secured file can be encrypted using an encryption algorithm or password protected.

At box the document sharing application can identify a primary communication identifier for the recipient user. The primary communication identifier can be supplied by the sending user or automatically identified by the document sharing application . At box the document sharing application can identify a secondary communication identifier associated with the recipient user that is different from the primary communication identifier. At box the document sharing application can transmit the secured file to the primary communication identifier. At box the document sharing application can transmit the security key to the secondary communication identifier. Thereafter the process can proceed to completion at box .

Referring next to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the document sharing application according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the document sharing application as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of elements of a method implemented in the computing device according to one or more embodiments. Functionality attributed to the document sharing application can be implemented in a single process or application executed by the computing device and or multiple processes or applications. The separation or segmentation of functionality as discussed herein is presented for illustrative purposes only. illustrates one example of how the document sharing application can automatically identify a secondary communication identifier to which a security key should be transmitted that is different from the primary communication identifier.

Beginning with box the document sharing application can identify a contact entry in contact data or a contacts data store or address book of the sending user where the contact entry is associated with the recipient user to whom a file is being shared via the document sharing application . At box the document sharing application can determine whether the contact entry contains another communication identifier to which the security key can be transmitted that varies from the primary communication identifier. If not the secondary communication identifier can be obtained from the contact entry then at box the document sharing application can initiate a request for the secondary communication identifier from the sending user.

Otherwise at box the document sharing application can select a secondary communication identifier based upon selection criteria associated with the document sharing application . The selection criteria can be based upon how frequently a computing device of the sending user communicates with a particular communication identifier. For example a communication identifier having the highest frequency of communications with the computing device over a specified period of time and that varies from the primary communication identifier can be selected as the secondary communication identifier. As another example the document sharing application can also be configured to always select a particular type of communication identifier as a secondary communication identifier such as a mobile phone number an identifier in a particular messaging service or other type of account of the recipient user. Accordingly upon selection of the secondary communication identifier the process can proceed to completion at box .

With reference to shown is a schematic block diagram of the computing device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The computing device includes at least one processor circuit for example having a processor and at least one memory device both of which are coupled to a local interface respectively. As such a computing device may comprise for example at least one computer a mobile device smartphone computing device or like device. The local interface may comprise for example a data bus with an accompanying address control bus or other bus structure as can be appreciated.

Stored in the memory device are both data and several components that are executable by the processor . In particular stored in the one or more memory device and executable by the processor are the document sharing application and potentially other applications. Also stored in the memory may be a data store and other data.

A number of software components are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor . In this respect the term executable means a program file that is in a form that can ultimately be run by the processor . Examples of executable programs may be for example a compiled program that can be translated into machine code in a format that can be loaded into a random access portion of one or more of the memory devices and run by the processor code that may be expressed in a format such as object code that is capable of being loaded into a random access portion of the one or more memory devices and executed by the processor or code that may be interpreted by another executable program to generate instructions in a random access portion of the memory devices to be executed by the processor etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory devices including for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard drive solid state drive USB flash drive memory card optical disc such as compact disc CD or digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk magnetic tape or other memory components.

The memory devices are defined herein as including both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Also the processor may represent multiple processors and or multiple processor cores and the one or more memory devices may represent multiple memories that operate in parallel processing circuits respectively. The memory devices can also represent a combination of various types of storage devices such as RAM mass storage devices flash memory hard disk storage etc. In such a case the local interface may be an appropriate network that facilitates communication between any two of the multiple processors between any processor and any of the memory devices etc. The local interface may comprise additional systems designed to coordinate this communication including for example performing load balancing. The processor may be of electrical or of some other available construction.

The computing device may include a display upon which a user interface generated by the document sharing application or another application can be rendered. The computing device may also include one or more input output devices that may include for example a capacitive touchscreen or other type of touch input device fingerprint reader keyboard etc.

Although the document sharing application and other various systems described herein may be embodied in software or code executed by general purpose hardware as discussed above as an alternative the same may also be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software general purpose hardware and dedicated hardware. If embodied in dedicated hardware each can be implemented as a circuit or state machine that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include but are not limited to discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals application specific integrated circuits ASICs having appropriate logic gates field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or other components etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and consequently are not described in detail herein.

The flowcharts of show an example of the functionality and operation of an implementation of portions of the document sharing application . If embodied in software each block may represent a module segment or portion of code that comprises program instructions to implement the specified logical function s . The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that comprises human readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that comprises numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as a processor in a computer system or other system. The machine code may be converted from the source code etc. If embodied in hardware each block may represent a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical function s .

Although the flowcharts of show a specific order of execution it is understood that the order of execution may differ from that which is depicted. For example the order of execution of two or more blocks may be scrambled relative to the order shown. Also two or more blocks shown in succession in may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Further in some embodiments one or more of the blocks shown in may be skipped or omitted. In addition any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement or providing troubleshooting aids etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Also any logic or application described herein including the document sharing application that comprises software or code can be embodied in any non transitory computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system such as for example a processor in a computer system or other system. In this sense the logic may comprise for example statements including instructions and declarations that can be fetched from the computer readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. In the context of the present disclosure a computer readable medium can be any medium that can contain store or maintain the logic or application described herein for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system.

The computer readable medium can comprise any one of many physical media such as for example magnetic optical or semiconductor media. More specific examples of a suitable computer readable medium would include but are not limited to magnetic tapes magnetic floppy diskettes magnetic hard drives memory cards solid state drives USB flash drives or optical discs. Also the computer readable medium may be a random access memory RAM including for example static random access memory SRAM and dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM . In addition the computer readable medium may be a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other type of memory device.

Further any logic or application described herein including the document sharing application may be implemented and structured in a variety of ways. For example one or more applications described may be implemented as modules or components of a single application. Further one or more applications described herein may be executed in shared or separate computing devices or a combination thereof. For example a plurality of the applications described herein may execute in the same computing device or in multiple computing devices . Additionally it is understood that terms such as application service system engine module and so on may be interchangeable and are not intended to be limiting.

It is emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

