---

title: Providing a multi-column newsfeed of content on a social networking system
abstract: News feed stories are ranked so that some stories appear above other stories for users of a social networking system. These “top” news stories are selected based on a ranking algorithm that incorporates an analysis of affinities for interests, users, and entities in the social networking system based on user interactions as well as story layout dimensions. The top news stories are presented in a multiple-column format, such as a grid format. Top news stories may be presented higher or in a more prominent placement among one or more columns in the story layout as compared to other news stories. The ranking of the top new news stories may change after a top news story is viewed. The multiple-column newsfeed enables a more visually pleasant placement of targeted advertisements on the social networking system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09189559&OS=09189559&RS=09189559
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09189559
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140808
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 494 942 filed on Jun. 12 2012 which application is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention relates generally to social networking and in particular to selectively providing content in a multi column or multiple column display on a social networking system.

In recent years users of social networking systems have shared their interests and engaged with other users of the social networking systems by sharing photos real time status updates and playing social games. The amount of information gathered from users is staggering information describing a variety of newsworthy items including recent moves to a new city graduations births engagements marriages and the like as well as more mundane content such as status messages information about what music has been listened to by users and recent check in events at coffee shops. As users become more connected with other users and entities on the social networking system the number of content items provided to the users increases exponentially. Existing social networking systems have ordered content items in reverse chronological order such that newly published content is displayed first. However as a result of a flood of content items published on social networking systems users may be exposed to irrelevant and uninteresting content while missing more relevant content that was previously presented.

Social networking systems may rank content items based on user interests and affinities for other users but providing a continuous and chronological stream of content to users may effectively obscure more interesting and relevant content items among less interesting content items that have been more recently published. Because users may load a page of a social networking system without reading content items provided on the page interesting and relevant content items may never be seen by the users. As a result of a decline in the user experience users may become less engaged with the social networking system.

Specifically users of social networking systems do not have an effective tool to indicate whether content items have been read or otherwise consumed. Providing users with efficient methods of consuming content items on a social networking system is valuable in providing a better user experience for users. As a result of consumption of content items highly targeted contextual advertising may further provide valuable advertising revenue to the social networking system. However existing systems have not provided users with tools or methods of managing the consumption of numerous incoming content items.

News feed stories are ranked so that new stories appear above previously viewed stories for users of a social networking system. Top news stories are selected based on a ranking algorithm that incorporates an analysis of affinities for interests users and entities in the social networking system based on user interactions as well as story layout dimensions. The top news stories are presented in a multiple column format including a grid format. Top news stories may be presented higher or in a more prominent placement among one or more columns in the story layout as compared to other news stories. The ranking of the top new news stories may change after a top news story is viewed. Other new stories are provided after the top new stories in a chronological order. Based on a view state that includes an order of previously provided news feed stories and received user input the social networking system may determine whether to provide new news stories to a viewing user. The multiple column newsfeed display enables better placement of targeted advertisements on the social networking system.

The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

A social networking system offers its users the ability to communicate and interact with other users of the social networking system. Users join the social networking system and add connections to a number of other users to whom they desire to be connected. Users of social networking system can provide information describing them which is stored as user profiles. For example users can provide their age gender geographical location education history employment history and the like. The information provided by users may be used by the social networking system to direct information to the user. For example the social networking system may recommend social groups events and potential friends to a user.

In addition to declarative information provided by users social networking systems may also record users actions on the social networking system. These actions include communications with other users sharing photos interactions with applications that operate on the social networking system such as a social gaming application responding to a poll adding an interest and joining an employee network. A social networking system may also be able to capture external website data that is accessed by its users. This external website data may include websites that are frequently visited links that are selected and other browsing data. Information about users such as stronger interests in particular users and applications than others based on their behavior can be generated from these recorded actions through analysis and machine learning by the social networking system.

A social networking system may also attempt to infer information about its users. A social networking system may analyze posted content by users that include keywords such as wedding. Location information may be gathered from content items posted by users to infer a home location of the user. As a result a social networking system may infer certain profile attributes of a user such as geographic location educational institutions attended and age range by analyzing the user s connections and their declared profile information. Inferring profile attributes are further discussed in Inferring User Profile Information U.S. application Ser. No. 12 916 322 filed on Oct. 29 2010 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

A social networking system may also enable users to explicitly express interest in a concept such as celebrities hobbies sports teams books music and the like. These interests may be used in a myriad of ways including targeting advertisements and personalizing the user experience on the social networking system by showing relevant stories about other users of the social networking system based on shared interests. In one embodiment a social networking system may compute affinity scores for users interests either explicitly expressed or otherwise inferred on the social networking system and use these affinity scores in ranking new content items that will be published in news feeds or communication channels on the social networking system for the users. News feed rankings based on affinity scores are further discussed in related applications Adaptive Ranking of News Feed in Social Networks U.S. application Ser. No. 13 194 770 filed on Jul. 29 2011 and Ranking Newsfeed Based on Social Graph Information U.S. application Ser. No. 13 194 773 filed on Jul. 29 2011 both which are hereby incorporated by reference.

A social graph includes nodes connected by edges that are stored on a social networking system. Nodes include users and objects of the social networking system such as web pages embodying concepts and entities and edges connect the nodes. Edges represent a particular interaction between two nodes such as when a user expresses an interest in a news article shared by another user about America s Cup. The social graph may record interactions between users of the social networking system as well as interactions between users and objects of the social networking system by storing information in the nodes and edges that represent these interactions. Custom graph object types and graph action types may be defined by third party developers as well as administrators of the social networking system to define attributes of the graph objects and graph actions. For example a graph object for a movie may have several defined object properties such as a title actors directors producers year and the like. A graph action type such as purchase may be used by a third party developer on a website external to the social networking system to report custom actions performed by users of the social networking system. In this way the social graph may be open enabling third party developers to create and use the custom graph objects and actions on external websites.

Third party developers may enable users of the social networking system to express interest in web pages hosted on websites external to the social networking system. These web pages may be represented as page objects in the social networking system as a result of embedding a widget a social plug in programmable logic or code snippet into the web pages such as an iFrame. Any concept that can be embodied in a web page may become a node in the social graph on the social networking system in this manner. As a result users may interact with many objects external to the social networking system that are relevant to a keyword or keyword phrase such as Justin Bieber. Each of the interactions with an object may be recorded by the social networking system as an edge. By enabling advertisers to target their advertisements based on user interactions with objects related to a keyword the advertisements may reach a more receptive audience because the users have already performed an action that is related to the advertisement. For example a merchandiser that sells Justin Bieber t shirts hats and accessories may target ads for new merchandise to users that have recently performed one of multiple different types of actions such as listening to Justin Bieber s song Baby purchasing Justin Bieber s new fragrance Someday commenting on a fan page for Justin Bieber and attending an event on a social networking system for the launch of a new Justin Bieber concert tour. Enabling third party developers to define custom object types and custom action types is further described in a related application Structured Objects and Actions on a Social Networking System U.S. application Ser. No. 13 239 340 filed on Sep. 21 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Even though a social networking system may collect and in some cases infer information about its users significant resources must be expended to organize the staggering amounts of data collected. A social networking system having hundreds of millions of users for example gathers and infers a staggering amount of information about its users. To address issues of scalability and efficiently expending computing resources a social networking system provides a snapshot of databases for modules to process. Recent changes in a user s personal life such as an engagement birth of a child moving across the country graduating from college and starting a new job can be collected and inferred from these snapshots on social networking systems. Content items related to these life events may be prioritized in a ranking of news feed stories selectively provided to users to ensure that the most relevant information is consumed first in one embodiment.

As users accumulate more connections on a social networking system news feeds or the communication channels used by the social networking system to communicate content posted by the users connections have the potential to become inundated and clogged with irrelevant information. Ranking content items according to users interests and affinities for other users may help to mitigate this problem. However a social networking system may be unable to determine whether users that engage with the social networking system often even multiple times a day with different devices associated with the same user profile have finished viewing the content items already provided. Often times a user may load a web page on the social networking system and inadvertently overlook a particularly engaging content item posted by another user connected to the user. This leads to less user engagement on the social networking system.

Social networking systems strive to keep their users engaged by delivering relevant content as soon as users are able to consume the content. Determining whether users are ready to view more content especially as users accumulate hundreds and even thousands of friends on the social networking system is valuable to ensuring that users remain engaged with the social networking system without inundating their newsfeeds with irrelevant content. Relevant content may be provided in a newsfeed displayed in a stream format such that each content item is displayed consecutively in a horizontal or vertical stream. Mechanisms may be used by a social networking system to manage the display of content in a newsfeed displayed in a stream format as further described in a related application Selectively Providing Content on a Social Networking System U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 421 786 filed on Mar. 15 2012 hereby incorporated by reference. Relevant content may also be provided in a newsfeed displayed in a multiple column format such that content items are displayed as stories in a story layout. The story layout may be determined based on a layout of varying sizes such as a three column layout a four column layout a five column layout and so forth. In one embodiment the size of the browser window operating on the user device may be used in determining the layout. In another embodiment the resolution of the display on the user device may be used in determining the layout. The size of a story may be larger or smaller taking up more than one column and or row based on a determined relevance and or affinity score for the story by the social networking system for the viewer. Machine learning and heuristics analysis may be used in selecting sizes of news feed stories in a multiple column display to users of a social networking system.

Users of the social networking system may take actions using the social networking system that are associated with one or more objects. Information describing these actions is stored in the action log . The action log includes many different types of interactions that occur on a social networking system including commenting on a photo album communications between users becoming a fan of a musician and adding an event to a calendar. Additionally the action log records a user s interactions with advertisements on the social networking system as well as other applications operating on the social networking system .

Edge objects store information about users connections to other nodes on a social networking system . Such information may include the interactions between the user and the connection on the social networking system including wall posts comments on photos geographic places where they have been tagged together and photos in which they have both been tagged in. In one embodiment an edge object includes information about the strength of the connection between the users such as an affinity score. If a user has a high affinity score for a particular connection the social networking system has recognized that the user interacts highly with that connection. Affinity scores and methods of gathering this social data from a social networking system are described further in Contextually Relevant Affinity Prediction in a Social Networking System U.S. application Ser. No. 12 978 265 filed on Dec. 23 2010 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

A viewing user device may connect with the social networking system and request content in a news feed user interface . A news feed manager responds to the request from the viewing user device by first determining previously presented news feed stories for the user associated with the viewing user device . Incoming news feed stories for the user associated with the viewing user device are determined and then ranked by a news feed ranking module . The top incoming news feed stories may be selected by the news feed manager and displayed in the news feed above the remaining incoming news feed stories . The news feed ranking module may use information about the user associated with the viewing user device to determine the ranking of content items in the news feed for the user. This user information may be obtained from user profile objects edge objects and actions stored in the action log associated with the user.

The news feed manager may then provide previously presented news feed stories below the incoming news feed stories for rendering in the news feed user interface based on received user input that indicates the user has finished consuming the previously presented news feed stories . As a result the viewing user will see the top new news stories first followed by the remaining new news stories and then the previously presented news feed stories. Such user input may include clicking on or otherwise selecting a link in the news feed user interface for more news stories detecting a scroll action from the viewing user device receiving clicking actions on various content items in news feed user interface and an elapsed time spent on the news feed user interface after loading the news feed user interface on the viewing user device .

The news feed manager records for each user on the social networking system a view state of the news feed stories that have been presented in each user s news feed storing the order of the stories that have been presented. The view state at a particular time may be stored in a view state object associated with the user. Using this view state the news feed manager may determine whether news feed stories have evolved changing the ranking of the news feed stories. For example a viewing user may be connected to another user that shared a link about a news story about Christmas shopping. The viewing user may express interest in this link by sharing the news story with other users connected to the viewing user commenting on the news story or liking the news story. Later other users connected to the viewing user may further interact with the news story or may post other news stories related to the topic of the news story about Christmas. The news feed ranking module may rank the news story higher as a result of users with high affinities interacting with the news feed story. Because these interactions have evolved the previously presented news story the news story may be presented to the viewing user as an incoming news feed story by the news feed manager . In addition the news feed manager may cluster the news feed stories about Christmas into one news feed story showing the newer interactions by other users.

The news feed manager may in one embodiment use machine learning methods to selectively provide new content to users of the social networking system . Each user on the social networking system may have different affinities for other users on the social networking system interests and concepts embodied as nodes on the social graph of the social networking system and applications that may be installed on the social networking system . Content items produced by these users interests concepts and applications have the potential to flood users with irrelevant information effectively hiding more relevant items. Machine learning may be used to predict which content items are more relevant for users as well as when users may be ready to consume new content items by analyzing user behaviors on the social networking system.

As a viewing user device loads a news feed user interface the news feed manager may render a link in the news feed user interface to indicate a number of new stories that have been accumulated. In this way the user may read and or consume top news stories that have been posted since the last time the user logged in. In one embodiment the news feed manager may determine that the user associated with the viewing user device is actively engaged with the news feed interface and may automatically update the news feed user interface with top incoming news feed stories as ranked by the news feed ranking module . In another embodiment the news feed manager may determine that a top incoming news feed story warrants automatically updating the news feed user interface for the user based on past user behaviors. In a further embodiment the news feed manager may update the link in the news feed user interface to indicate an updated number of new stories that have been accumulated and await user input such as a mouse click a touchpad input voice input gesture input or keyboard input to execute the link and display the new incoming news feed stories . A click action may be defined as any user input used to select and execute a link.

In one embodiment the news feed manager may dynamically render the previously presented news feed stories and incoming news feed stories in a ranking determined by the news feed ranking module based on user input received or lack of receipt from the news feed user interface on the viewing user device . For example a user may access a social networking system through a viewing user device in the morning and browse through content items that are provided in the news feed user interface . Once provided in the news feed user interface the order of the previously presented news feed stories is stored as the user s view state at that time in a view state object associated with the viewing user. The user may then browse on other sites on the viewing user device and leave the news feed user interface open where the news feed user interface is embodied on a web page loaded by a web browser or on a native application on a mobile device. Later that afternoon the user may again access the social networking system through the viewing user device to either continue browsing previously presented news feed stories or new incoming news feed stories . As described above the news feed manager may render a link in the news feed user interface to indicate that incoming news feed stories are available. The user may click on the link to view the new incoming news feed stories . This user input may cause the news feed manager to provide for display in the news feed user interface the incoming news feed stories as ranked by the news feed ranking module above the previously presented news feed stories in the order stored in the user s view state that morning retrieved from the view state object associated with the user.

Alternatively the user may never click on that link to display the incoming news feed stories . In that case the news feed manager may continue holding the incoming news feed stories while refreshing the link that indicates an increasing amount of new stories. On the other hand the news feed manager may automatically refresh the news feed user interface to display the incoming news feed stories with the previously presented news feed stories . In one embodiment the news feed ranking module may rank a new incoming news feed story below a previously presented news feed story because the previously presented news feed story may have been highly interacted with by other users connected to the viewing user may have evolved by the original publishing user commented on the previously presented news feed story or may be of high interest to multiple users connected to the viewing user. As a result the incoming news feed stories are selectively provided to the viewing user based on information gathered about that user as well as the view state of the news feed for that user.

A story layout manager determines the dimensions of stories determined to be relevant by the news feed manager for presentation on a multiple column display to a viewing user of the social networking system . A story may include references to one or more content items about a particular subject being talked about by users of the social networking system or a particular location in which users have checked in recently. A story may also include an aggregation of actions performed by one or more users of the social networking system such as miles ran songs listened to stories shared and so forth. Each story may include one or more graphic images of different sizes. A story may be displayed across several columns in the multiple column display of the news feed on the social networking system . In one embodiment the story layout manager may receive information from the user device about the display resolution of the user device. Using this information about the display resolution of the user device the story layout manager may adjust the story layout to include more or fewer columns and or rows. In another embodiment the story layout manager may receive information in real time about the size of the browser window operating on the user device. Similarly using this information about the size of the browser window operating on the user device the story layout manager may adjust the story layout to include more or fewer columns and or rows.

The user devices comprise one or more computing devices that can receive user input and can transmit and receive data via the network . In one embodiment the user device is a conventional computer system executing for example a Microsoft Windows compatible operating system OS Apple OS X and or a Linux distribution. In another embodiment the user device can be a device having computer functionality such as a personal digital assistant PDA mobile telephone smart phone etc. The user device is configured to communicate via network . The user device can execute an application for example a browser application that allows a user of the user device to interact with the social networking system . In another embodiment the user device interacts with the social networking system through an application programming interface API that runs on the native operating system of the user device such as iOS and ANDROID.

In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. Thus the network can include links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX G G CDMA digital subscriber line DSL etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network can include multiprotocol label switching MPLS the transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP the User Datagram Protocol UDP the hypertext transport protocol HTTP the simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and the file transfer protocol FTP . The data exchanged over the network can be represented using technologies and or formats including the hypertext markup language HTML and the extensible markup language XML . In addition all or some of links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS and Internet Protocol security IPsec .

The web server links the social networking system via the network to one or more user devices the web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as Java Flash XML and so forth. The web server may provide the functionality of receiving and routing messages between the social networking system and the user devices for example instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS short message service messages or messages sent using any other suitable messaging technique. The user can send a request to the web server to upload information for example images or videos that are stored in the content store . Additionally the web server may provide API functionality to send data directly to native user device operating systems such as iOS ANDROID webOS and RIM.

The action logger is capable of receiving communications from the web server about user actions on and or off the social networking system . The action logger populates the action log with information about user actions to track them. Such actions may include for example adding a connection to the other user sending a message to the other user uploading an image reading a message from the other user viewing content associated with the other user attending an event posted by another user among others. In addition a number of actions described in connection with other objects are directed at particular users so these actions are associated with those users as well. These actions are stored in an action log .

An action log may be used by a social networking system to track users actions on the social networking system as well as external websites that communication information back to the social networking system . As mentioned above users may interact with various objects on the social networking system including commenting on posts sharing links and checking in to physical locations via a mobile device. The action log may also include user actions on external websites. For example an e commerce website that primarily sells luxury shoes at bargain prices may recognize a user of a social networking system through social plug ins that enable the e commerce website to identify the user of the social networking system. Because users of the social networking system are uniquely identifiable e commerce websites such as this luxury shoe reseller may use the information about these users as they visit their websites. The action log records data about these users including viewing histories advertisements that were clicked on purchasing activity and buying patterns.

User account information and other related information for users are stored as user profile objects in the user profile store . The user profile information stored in user profile store describes the users of the social networking system including biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history gender hobbies or preferences location and the like. The user profile may also store other information provided by the user for example images or videos. In certain embodiments images of users may be tagged with identification information of users of the social networking system displayed in an image. The user profile store also maintains references to the actions stored in an action log and performed on objects in the content store .

The edge store stores the information describing connections between users and other objects on the social networking system in edge objects . Some edges may be defined by users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example users may generate edges with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Other edges are generated when users interact with objects in the social networking system such as expressing interest in a page on the social networking system sharing a link with other users of the social networking system and commenting on posts made by other users of the social networking system. The edge store stores edge objects that include information about the edge such as affinity scores for objects interests and other users. Affinity scores may be computed by the social networking system over time to approximate a user s affinity for an object interest and other users in the social networking system based on the actions performed by the user. Multiple interactions between a user and a specific object may be stored in one edge object in the edge store in one embodiment. For example a user that plays multiple songs from Lady Gaga s album Born This Way may have multiple edge objects for the songs but only one edge object for Lady Gaga.

A news feed manager selectively provides content to users of a social networking system and records the consumption of content by users using view state objects for the users of the social networking system . View state objects are stored in the view state store and are associated with user profile objects stored in the user profile store . As new news feed stories are generated for a user by the news feed manager the news feed stories are ranked by the news feed ranking module and stored in the news feed story store . The news feed manager may communicate with user devices through the web server and network to provide content to users of the social networking system . In one embodiment a news feed manager may provide content through a social plug in such as an iFrame to an external website to provide content posted on the social networking system about an entity associated with the external website . As an example a business entity that creates a page on the social networking system may desire to publish the content items posted on the page s news feed in the social networking system to an external website via a social plug in installed on the external website .

The story layout manager may retrieve news feed stories that are stored in the news feed story store for determining a story layout of the incoming news feed stories . The story layout manager may generate a cluster story that includes multiple news feed stories about a topic such as the New York Knicks as well as stories clustered around an event such as the Super Bowl. The story layout manager may also aggregate incoming newsfeed stories with previously presented news feed stories to generate a cluster story such as 9 friends are in the Mission with an image uploaded by one of the users in a check in event. Other types of cluster stories include an update of friends or other users of the social networking system connected to a viewing user that now live in a specific city such as New York N.Y. This current location update story may rely on different types of content items such as status messages uploaded from a mobile user device that attached geographic location coordinates to the status messages check in events at locations changed addresses declared in user profiles uploaded pictures with embedded geographic location coordinates and so forth.

Another type of cluster story includes an around me story that includes different news feed stories of other users connected to the viewing user that have occurred in a close proximity to the viewing user s current geographic location. For example a viewing user may check in at the Eiffel Tower in Paris France. As a result the story layout manager may retrieve new news feed stories generated by other users connected to the viewing user that are near the Eiffel Tower such as check ins at a nearby caf museums and other landmarks.

The story layout manger may also rely on the ranking algorithm of the news feed ranking module to determine the size and dimensions of stories for placement within a determined story layout. For example a highly relevant story that clusters multiple incoming news feed stories about Jeremy Lin the newest point guard for the New York Knicks may be highly ranked for a viewing user based on affinity scores and the ranking algorithm of the news feed ranking module . As a result the size of the cluster story about Jeremy Lin may be larger than other less relevant stories.

In addition the story layout manager may also incorporate the size of the story into the ranking algorithm of the news feed ranking module in another embodiment. For example a graphic image included in a story may affect the size of a story. A high quality graphic image may make a story larger than another story with a lower quality graphic image. The ranking algorithm of the news feed ranking module may incorporate the size of a story in ranking incoming news feed stories.

In a further embodiment the story layout manager may retrieve news feed stories stored in the news feed story store to present a historical news feed to a viewing user. For example a viewing user may want to see what news feed items were being presented to him in 2009. In response to a request from the viewing user of the social networking system the story layout manager may retrieve all news feed stories that were presented to the viewing user in 2009 and rank the news feed stories using a ranking algorithm included in the news feed ranking module . In this way the story layout manager may provide previously presented news feed stories to show relevant stories at different time periods such as a certain day time week month and or year.

In yet another embodiment the story layout manager may present new news feed stories in a multiple column display on the social networking system such that new news feed stories replace previously presented news feed stories at predetermined time periods. For example a viewing user of the social networking system may be presented with a morning layout of the most relevant news feed stories that have been generated since the last time the viewing user accessed the social networking system . Later that afternoon an afternoon layout may be provided to the viewing user with the most relevant news feed stories that have been generated that day. In the evening an evening layout may be provided to the viewing user with the most relevant news feed stories that have been generated since the afternoon layout. In each layout the news feed stories presented in the layout do not change until the next layout is presented to the viewing user. Thus news feed stories in the morning layout differ from news feed stories in the afternoon layout and so on. In other embodiments different time periods may be used such as hourly updates daily updates weekly updates and the like.

The story generator module generates potential dimensions of a news feed story generated by the news feed manager . The story generator may generate multiple sizes of a news story using different graphics and information from a generated news feed story. For example a news feed story may have a small size that only includes a text description of the story as well as the one or more actors involved in the news feed story a medium size that includes a small graphic image included in the news feed story and a large size that includes a larger graphic image included in the news feed story. In one embodiment the display resolution of the user device associated with a viewing user may be used in determining the multiple sizes of a news story. In another embodiment the size of browsers operating on a user device associated with a viewing user may also be used in determining the multiple sizes of the news story. In an embodiment the story generator stores generated news feed stories in the news feed story store . The news feed story store may be represented as a database that links various objects related to the news feed stories. Each news feed story stored in the news feed story store can be associated with other entities in the social networking system . For example a news feed story may be associated with one or more users that performed an action described in the news feed story as well as with a representation of the video in the social networking system . The users that performed the actions described in the news feed story are called the actors. For example if the news feed story describes a comment posted by John on a video posted by Jack both John and Jack can be considered actors of the news feed story. As another example a news feed story describing a comment posted by a user in response to another user s wall post may be associated with both the user who posted the message on the wall and the user who posted the comment.

News feed stories about a topic an event a location a user an entity a page or any other node on the social networking system may be clustered into a single news feed story generated by the story generator . For example a cluster news feed story may include multiple news feed stories generated by multiple actors sharing different links about the same topic such as the death of Whitney Houston. Another cluster news feed story may include different types of news feed stories such as a check in event at a museum a status update message and a photo upload performed by different users of the social networking system to indicate that a close friend of the viewing user from New York N.Y. has just landed in San Francisco Calif. for a visit. Upon selecting the cluster news feed story the social networking system may provide the multiple news feed stories that were clustered. In one embodiment a cluster news feed story combines news feed stories that are about the same topic or refer to the same link. For example keywords that are included in content items that posted on the social networking system such as Christmas may be analyzed by the story generator and those news feed stories may be combined into a condensed news feed story. This enables the viewing user to browse through a news feed more efficiently by combining redundant and similar posts. In another embodiment a separate process and or module in the social networking system groups these redundant and similar posts into a single combined post and operates in conjunction with the story generator .

In a particular embodiment news feed stories generated by one or more users of the social networking system may be boosted and or grouped with advertisements for a particular product or service. For example a cluster news feed story about Whitney Houston may be combined with an advertisement for downloading an album by Whitney Houston. In effect this grouping generates an advertisement that may be inserted into the multiple column news feed display. Grouping user activity and advertisements into advertisement units for display on the social networking system is further described in a related application Grouping and Ordering Advertising Units Based on User Activity U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 348 491 filed on Jan. 11 2012 hereby incorporated by reference.

A story layout presentation module determines placement in a story layout for generated content items or news feed stories for display in a multiple column format on news feed user interfaces on viewing user devices . The story layout presentation module determines the placement of news feed stories in a story layout to be presented to a user and provides the story layout of the news feed stories to the story layout user interface module . The story layout user interface module presents the selected news feed stories in the story layout for display in a multiple column format to the news feed user interface on a viewing user device . The story layout presentation module determines placement of a set of stories in a story layout for presentation to a viewer based on associations between the stories and the viewer. These associations are determined on various factors including whether the story describes a user of the social networking system that is connected to the user whether the viewer previously accessed information describing an entity represented in the social networking system that is described in the story whether the viewer interacted with another story that is related to the current story and the like. The story layout presentation module uses the news feed ranking module to determine placement of news feed stories being presented to the user in the story layout. For example highly ranked news feed stories may occupy one or more columns in a multiple column news feed format near the top of the story layout.

The story layout presentation module may present a subset of the incoming news feed stories based on the ranking for example the top 10 stories depending on the display area available on the news feed user interface for presenting the stories. The story layout presentation module presents the stories in the order determined by the ranking for example stories ranked higher may be presented more prominently compared to stories ranked lower. In an embodiment higher ranking stories are presented in a larger format than lower ranking stories. In another embodiment higher ranking stories are presented above lower ranking stories. In a further embodiment the remaining incoming news stories not selected as the top news stories may be presented in a chronological order after the top news stories. In other embodiments stories ranked higher may be presented more prominently by displaying them using an appropriate text color font text size background color etc.

A story layout user interface module provides a user interface for providing a story layout comprising incoming news feed stories. The story layout user interface module may receive user input view the provided user interface that indicates the viewing user is ready to view more news feed stories. The story layout user interface module may also receive user input indicating that the viewing user wants to drill down into a particular news feed story such as a cluster news feed story about Jeremy Lin of the New York Knicks. The received user input may be a click of a link a hovering of a pointer over a news feed story a touch input received through a touch screen device a gesture received through a touch screen device an audio command received through a user device a gesture received through a video camera on the user device and any user input that may be received by the user device connected to the social networking system .

A view state manager operates independently and asynchronously from the other modules in the story layout manager . The view state manager determines when to capture a view state of the news feed for each user of a social networking system . A viewing user may login to a social networking system to start a new viewing session. Throughout the session incoming news feed stories may be provided to a viewing user and as a result the view state for the viewing user has changed. The view state manager may determine that after each news feed story is published to a user s news feed the view state should be updated in the view state object . The view state object is stored in a view state store which may be embodied in super fast memory in one embodiment. In one embodiment the view state is updated when a user s session expires. The session may expire based on a lack of engagement with or activity on the social networking system by the user. For example a user may open a web browser on a user device to connect to the social networking system . After browsing news feed stories the user may open another browser window to view other web pages not connected to the social networking system . In one embodiment the session created when the user first connected with the social networking system will expire based on a predetermined time period of non activity elapsing. In another embodiment the viewing session expires when the user logs out of the social networking system . When a session expires the view state which includes an order of news feed stories and indications of whether news feed stories were featured or highlighted as a top story is stored in the view state object associated with the user.

Using the view state manager the story layout manager may determine that the user is not yet ready to read view or consume more news feed stories. For example if a user starts a new session but does not scroll down the multiple column news feed display as detected by the story layout user interface module then the story layout manager may assume that the user has not yet read the news feed stories provided on the news feed user interface. If that user later starts another session the previously presented news feed stories remain frozen on the news feed user interface using the view state previously stored by the view state manager . A link may be rendered by the story layout user interface module to indicate that incoming news feed stories generated by the news feed manager and ranked by the news feed ranking module are available for consumption without presenting the new incoming news feed stories . In one embodiment the link includes a number of incoming news feed stories that are available. This number may be dynamically updated in real time as new news feed stories are generated by the story generator . In another embodiment the story layout user interface module may include a preview of the new incoming news feed stories that are available for consumption without publishing the incoming news feed stories and changing the view state.

In a further embodiment the story layout manager may infer that a user has finished consuming or reading the news feed stories that are presented upon receiving user input from the news feed user interface on a user device such as a click or selection of a link. In that case the incoming news feed stories may be automatically rendered to replace previously presented news feed stories and provided according to a story layout determined by the story layout presentation module . The view state would also be updated by the view state manager . In yet another embodiment the story layout manager may hold the incoming news feed stories behind a link rendered by the story layout user interface module unless a top story has been generated by the news feed generator and ranked by the news feed ranking module . The top new news story may have a prediction score determined by the news feed ranking module that exceeds a predetermined threshold to cause the story layout manager to publish the top news story in the multiple column news feed display without determining that the viewing user is ready to consume more news stories.

A story detail presentation module provides more detail for a story provided in a multiple column news feed display on the social networking system . Because many stories may be cluster stories the story detail presentation module may provide the multiple stories that were combined to form the cluster story provided on the multiple column news feed display to users. In one embodiment the story detail presentation module enables a viewing user to view more information about the story provided in the multiple column news feed display. For example an aggregation story displaying the number of times a particular artist such as Whitney Houston was listened to by users of the social networking system connected to a viewing user may be provided in a multiple column news feed display on the social networking system . When the viewing user clicks on the aggregation story about the number of times connected users listened to Whitney Houston the story detail presentation module may provide additional information about the aggregation story such as individual stories indicating which users listened to which songs cluster stories indicating which users listened to the same songs stories grouped by album indicating which users listened to the same album of songs and so forth. As another example a cluster story about Jeremy Lin may include several types of news feed stories by users entities events and groups connected or unconnected to the viewing user. An opinion piece that has been read by numerous users on the social networking system about Jeremy Lin though unread by the viewing user may be included in the cluster story about Jeremy Lin. When selected the cluster story about Jeremy Lin may expand to provide the individual news feed stories and presented by the story detail presentation module . Other types of stories may be included such as status updates by other users connected to the viewing user upcoming events regarding Jeremy Lin as sponsored by an advertiser such as the NBA an advertisement of Nike shoes endorsed by Jeremy Lin links to articles about Jeremy Lin shared by other members of a group in which the viewing user belongs videos uploaded by users of the social networking system from a New York Knicks game at Madison Square Garden and the like. Stories may be provided by other entities and applications including other users that a user may follow such as a page representing Jeremy Lin an application representing the New York Knicks a user representing Jeremy Lin and a page for Nike.

A machine learning module may be used in the story layout manager to refine the predictive models and select the predictive factors used for determining the size and dimensions of highlighted highly ranked and or top news feed stories in the determined story layout. A highlighted story may be a story having a ranking exceeding a predetermined threshold in one embodiment. For example a cluster story about Whitney Houston that includes a large hi resolution photo may be highlighted because of the sheer number of links and news feed stories being produced on the social networking system at the moment. However a viewing user of the social networking system may not be particularly interested in having pop culture news stories highlighted in his or her story layout of the news feed. As a result that viewing user may click on an X on the provided news feed story about Whitney Houston to indicate that the viewing user does not want to view that type of news feed story in the future. In one embodiment a social networking system uses a machine learning algorithm to analyze user interactions with highlighted stories to retrain the predictive model. Using feedback from the user interactions indicating whether a news feed story should be highlighted the machine learning module may refine the predictive model to include more or less predictive factors and the weights assigned to each predictive factor or coefficients can also be adjusted based upon the response i.e. the user interactions with the highlighted stories. As another example a news feed story about Jeremy Lin may be provided as a smaller news feed story in a story layout for a viewing user based on the lack of historical interaction with sports stories by the viewing user. However the machine learning module using a machine learning algorithm in one embodiment may determine that the viewing user may be more interested in sports or in Jeremy Lin specifically. In another embodiment heuristics analysis may be used to infer that the viewing user has become more interested in sports and or in Jeremy Lin based on user feedback and interactions with sports stories and or stories about Jeremy Lin.

In another embodiment the machine learning module may be used to determine whether a previously presented news feed story such as a shared link to a video may evolve into a new incoming news feed story based on other users sharing the link commenting on the link or otherwise interacting with the link. For example if a very close friend of a viewing user as determined from an affinity score for the user profile object for the very close friend shared the link that was previously presented on the viewing user s news feed the previously presented news feed story may be combined into a single news feed story that includes the other users that have shared the link including the very close friend and his comments about the link if any. The machine learning module may be used to determine in conjunction with the story layout presentation module whether such stories should evolve to show the most recent interactions be presented to the viewing user again and how should the story be provided in the multiple column display.

Once a request for new news feed stories has been received new news feed stories are generated . The story generator in the story layout manager may generate new news feed stories and hold them in a queue to be presented to the viewing user. The new news feed stories may be generated from this queue in one embodiment. In another embodiment new news feed stories may be generated upon receiving the request from the user. In a further embodiment a news feed ranking module may identify a top news feed story for the story layout manager to determine a placement and dimensions in a determined story layout. As a result the top news feed story is generated as a new news feed story. This new news feed story may in one embodiment include a plurality of news feed stories that have been combined clustered or aggregated into a single news feed story. Remaining new news feed stories other than the selected top news feed stories are also generated .

After new news feed stories are generated a plurality of dimensions are determined for each of the new news feed stories. A plurality of dimensions may include determining audio and or video content to be displayed in the new news feed story and the size of the audio and or video content within the new news feed story in one embodiment. In another embodiment a plurality of dimensions may include the width and height of the new news feed story in context of the story layout. For example a news feed story may include one or more photos uploaded by a user or entity to a photo album on the social networking system . The one or more photos may be cropped to preview the photos of users concepts and or entities of the social networking system .

A story layout may have a default width and a default height for each news feed story based on a predetermined layout such as a layout of three columns by three rows 3 3 . In one embodiment the default width and the default height may vary based on the resolution of the display screen of the user device on which the story layout is being displayed. In another embodiment the default width and the default height may be based on the orientation of the display such as a portrait orientation of three columns by five rows 3 5 or a landscape orientation of five columns by three rows 5 3 . Other combinations of rows and columns may be used in other embodiments. In one embodiment the predetermined layout may include a number of columns only. In another embodiment the predetermined layout may include a number of rows only. A plurality of dimensions may also be determined to overlap predetermined columns in a multiple column display of the story layout. For example if a high quality high resolution picture is used to display a top news feed story the plurality of dimensions determined for that news feed story may include dimensions that span multiple columns in the multiple column display of the story layout. In another embodiment multiple dimensions or sizes may be generated for a news feed story such as small medium and large. A small dimension for a news feed story may be a predetermined width and height within the story layout such as one row by one column. A medium dimension for a news feed story may be a predetermined width and height within the story layout such as one row by two columns. A large dimension for a news feed story may be a predetermined width and height within the story layout such as two rows by three columns. Determining a plurality of dimensions for news feed stories in a social networking system based on relevance to the viewing user is further described in a related application Aggregating Social Networking System User Information for Display Via Stories U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 239 354 filed on Sep. 21 2011 hereby incorporated by reference. In one embodiment the plurality of dimensions or sizes for news feed stories are determined based on a ranking by the news feed ranking module . In another embodiment the plurality of dimensions for news feed stories are determined according to a prediction model for relevance to the viewing user based on previous user interactions on the social networking system . In a further embodiment the news feed rankings may change dynamically based on newly generated news feed stories.

After a plurality of dimensions are determined for each of the new news feed stories a placement of each new news feed story is determined based on a ranking of the news feed story and the plurality of dimensions determined for the news feed story. The new news feed stories may be ranked by the news feed ranking module . Using that ranking new news feed stories may be selected to be provided in the multiple column display. Placement of each new news feed story may be determined based on the ranking such that highly ranked news feed stories are placed higher in the multiple column display than lower ranked news feed stories. The lowest ranked new news feed stories may not be displayed in the multiple column display in one embodiment. In another embodiment the top new news feed stories that have a news feed ranking higher than a predetermined threshold are placed in ranked order followed by the remaining new news feed stories in a chronological order such as reverse chronological order within the multiple column display.

After the placement of the new news feed stories selected for display in the multiple column display to the user has been determined the social networking system determines whether the user read previously provided news feed stories based on received user input. If the social networking system determines that the user has not read the provided news feed stories based on received user input then new news feed stories are continuously generated . In one embodiment a link may be provided by the social networking system to the user to indicate a number of new news feed stories that are available for viewing. User input that may indicate whether the user has read the provided news feed stories includes a scroll action on a web browser or mobile application a click action on a link provided in a news feed story and a refresh of the user interface on the web browser or mobile application. In one embodiment no user input is needed and if the web browser is active or the mobile application is open the social networking system may determine that the user has read the provided news feed stories. In another embodiment the social networking system determines that the user has read the provided news feed stories based on a predetermined time period elapsing.

After the social networking system has determined that the user has read the provided news feed stories the new news feed stories are provided in the story layout to the user according to the determined placements and determined pluralities of dimensions of the new news feed stories. The new news feed stories may be provided on a user device connected to the social networking system for display on a browser in one embodiment. In another embodiment the new news feed stories may be provided on a user device connected to the social networking system for display in a native application using an application programming interface API . In a further embodiment the new news feed stories may be provided in an interface by the social networking system to an external system such as a third party website through an embedded

The multiple column news feed display also includes a news feed story about Puppies a news feed story informing the viewing user that Joe Schmo and 8 other friends are in the Richmond District of San Francisco an advertisement for a car service a news feed story about new gym shoes and a news feed story about songs by Whitney Houston listened to by other users connected to the viewing user in the past hour. The news feed story about Puppies may also be a cluster news feed story that may include a clustered news feed story with an image of a puppy and options to interact with the clustered news feed story . A clustered news feed story may be one of many clustered news feed stories that are included in a cluster news feed story such as news feed story about Puppies. The options include expressing approval of the news feed story liking the story and commenting on the news feed story .

The news feed story informing the viewing user that Joe Schmo and 8 other friends are in the Richmond District of San Francisco may be a cluster news feed story that may also provide a clustered check in event by Joe Schmo a profile picture associated with Joe Schmo on the social networking system and a photo that was uploaded and associated with the check in event by Joe Schmo. The check in event may include a comment by Joe Schmo the user of the social networking system performing the check in event . The check in event may also include a link to the location of the check in event Pho Clement as well as a link to other users tagged at the check in event such as the 3 others tagged in the check in event .

The multiple column news feed display also includes a news feed story about new gym shoes from Chase Smith that includes a photo uploaded by that user and options to interact with the news feed story . Because this news feed story is ranked lower than the new news feed stories the news feed story is placed in the third row of the multiple column news feed display and occupies one tile in the second column. In contrast the news feed story about Whitney Houston is highly ranked by the social networking system for the viewing user and is placed in the first row of the multiple column news feed display occupying three tiles in the first second and third columns. As another example the news feed story informing the viewing user that Joe Schmo and 8 other friends are in the Richmond District of San Francisco may be ranked higher than the news feed story about new gym shoes. As a result the news feed story is placed in the second row of the multiple column news feed display occupying two tiles in the second and third columns. The news feed story about puppies may have a slightly lower ranking than the news feed story about Joe Schmo and other friends being in the Richmond District such that the news feed story about puppies only occupies one tile on the second row at the first column.

The multiple column news feed display also includes a news feed story that includes several custom graph action stories that may be automatically generated by the social networking system upon receiving indications that users of the social networking system performed the custom graph actions. For example the news feed story includes a statement that Roy Jones and 10 friends listened to Whitney Houston in the past hour. The news feed story further includes a graph action story indicating the song was listened to by Roy Jones and that Bob White likes the graph action story . The news feed story may also include a news feed story that includes a link to a music video for Home by Whitney Houston that has been listened to by one of the users included in Roy Jones and 10 friends. In other embodiments automatically generated news feed stories may included aggregated counts of songs listened to by users of the social networking system top songs listened to by artists that the viewing user may be interested in news articles read by connected users of the social networking system top games played by users on the social networking system and so on.

Each news feed story included in the multiple column news feed display may include options for the viewing user to interact with the news feed stories including expressing approval of the news feed story by liking it and commenting on the news feed story . Other options may include sharing news feed stories with other users of the social networking system connected to the viewing user. Additionally some news feed stories may include an indication of other users that have also expressed interest in those news feed stories including names of those users as well as a number of total users expressing interest. Although not illustrated the multiple column news feed display in one embodiment may also include an incoming news feed stories link that indicates to the viewing user that there are additional news feed stories that are ready to be presented. This link may appear as a pop up window that may dynamically appear within the multiple column news feed display . In another embodiment the link may appear as a small button within the user interface for the social networking system .

In the multiple column news feed display expands to include an interaction detail display that includes clustered news feed stories in the news feed story about Whitney Houston. In one embodiment the viewing user clicks on the news feed story about Whitney Houston illustrated in which results in the presentation of the interaction detail display within the multiple column news feed display . In another embodiment the interaction detail display may be provided as a pop up window that overlaps the multiple column news feed display . Illustrated within the interaction detail display a viewing user may have access to clustered news feed stories that were grouped in the news feed story about Whitney Houston including a post about comment by Mike Wynn on a post by the page for Whitney Houston that includes social context information about the comment a post by a page 7 Live that the viewing user is connected to on the social networking system that includes a link to an external website about Whitney Houston s funeral that also includes social context information a post by a user Michael Tate that includes text and a link to a music video by Whitney Houston as well as social context information and a link to additional posts that are included in the cluster news feed story . Clicking on the link may deliver the additional posts within the interaction detail display .

As illustrated in the multiple column news feed display is shown after the interaction detail display has been closed. Because the interaction detail display was activated by the viewing user clicking on the news feed story about Whitney Houston that news feed story appears in the second row of the multiple column news feed display and occupies only 2 tiles overlapping the first and second columns. The social networking system may use various algorithms and methods in selecting the size and placement of news feed stories in the multiple column news feed display . One factor that may be used is whether the news feed story has been interacted with previously by the viewing user.

Also illustrated in the placement or story layout of the multiple column news feed display has changed. In the first row occupying the first two columns is the news feed story about Joe Schmo. Included in the news feed story is an update on the number of friends that are in the Richmond District of San Francisco right now. The update now indicates that 10 other friends are located in the Richmond District compared to 8 other friends as originally posted and illustrated in . This update may include real time check in events that have occurred since the viewing user last interacted with the multiple column news feed display .

The placement of advertisements such as the advertisement for car service may also change dynamically as the viewing user interacts with the multiple column news feed display . Now located in the first row third column the advertisement for car service may grab the attention of the viewing user more than its previous location in the third row first column as illustrated in . By dynamically changing the placement of advertisements and news feed stories in the multiple column news feed display the social networking system may encourage more engagement with advertisements leading to an enhanced user experience as well as additional revenue from advertisers.

In the second row third column the news feed story about Puppies also includes an update in the number of friends talking about Puppies. The update informs the viewing user that 12 friends as compared with 10 friends previously reported and illustrated in are now talking about Puppies. The talking about functionality of the social networking system may include any comments posts links photo and or video uploads and messages on the social networking system or systems connected to the social networking system through custom graph actions and custom graph objects in one embodiment. In another embodiment the social networking system may analyze content items on the social networking system for keywords to enable the talking about functionality.

In the third row first column the news feed story about new gym shoes is displayed shifting one tile to the left as previously displayed and illustrated in . In the third row third column the news feed story that includes an update that 15 friends listened to Whitney Houston. In the third row second column the social networking system may display mini advertisements that occupy one tile such as an advertisement for a page that represents Harvey s a restaurant which Mito Sanz and 10 other friends like an advertisement for a page that represents EdgeSF a bar which Mike Jose and 3 other friends have checked in at and an advertisement for a page representing P.F. Chang s a restaurant in which 407 people liked.

The news feed story also includes social context information of when the new connection was formed 9 hours ago. In one embodiment the story layout presentation module may have placed the news feed story about the shared link to an external video above the news feed story about the formation of a new connection between other users of the social networking system because of the type of content included in the news feed story . The viewing user may be more interested in viewing shared links to external videos. In another embodiment the story layout presentation module may have placed the news feed story about the shared link to an external video above the news feed story because of the number of other connections that have shared the link. Other interactions such as new comments by other users on the news feed story may inform the social networking system that the news feed story may have evolved into a new incoming news feed story as determined by the story layout manager .

As further illustrated in previously presented news feed stories such as the post about a comment made by Mary Allen on Debbie Chang s photo may also be presented below the multiple column news feed display . A photo included in the post as well options and a time indicator of when the comment was made 5 hours ago and social context information Joe Jones and 4 others liking the post may be included in the post . In one embodiment the other stories that are displayed below the multiple column news feed display are ordered chronologically such as reverse chronological order. In another embodiment the other stories are displayed by relevance to the viewing user. In a further embodiment the viewing user may be enabled to switch back and forth between the orderings.

In one embodiment new incoming news feed stories and advertisements are dynamically rendered in the multiple column news feed display upon the viewing user interacting with news feed stories as illustrated in . In another embodiment new incoming news feed stories and advertisements are automatically rendered in the multiple column news feed display upon generation by the social networking system . In yet another embodiment new incoming news feed stories and advertisements may be presented to the viewing user in the multiple column news feed display even without interaction by the viewing user if the story layout manager determines that the new incoming news feed stories are of such relevance and importance that the viewing user would want to view them immediately. In a further embodiment new incoming news feed stories and advertisements are dynamically rendered in the multiple column news feed display because the social networking system detects that the viewing user is actively engaged with the user interface that includes the multiple column news feed display such as detecting a scroll action a click action on links within the multiple column news feed display or an active browser window or mobile application. In an alternative embodiment new incoming news feed stories and advertisements are dynamically rendered in the multiple column news feed display upon the lapse of a predetermined time period.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

