---

title: Spiro[2.4]heptanes for treatment of Flaviviridae infections
abstract: Compounds, methods, and compositions for the treatment of infections in or exposure to humans and other host animals of Flaviviridae viruses, including HCV, that includes the administration of an effective amount of a spiro[2.4]heptane as described herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof, optionally in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, are provided. The spiro[2.4]heptane compounds either possess antiviral activity, or are metabolized to a compound that exhibits such activity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09216960&OS=09216960&RS=09216960
owner: University of Georgia Research Foundation, Inc.
number: 09216960
owner_city: Athens
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141124
---
This application is a division of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 162 618 file Jan. 23 2013 which is a division of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 767 042 filed Feb. 14 2013 that granted as U.S. Pat. No. 8 673 926 on Mar. 18 2014 which claims the benefit of priority of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 615 989 filed Mar. 27 2012 U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 615 975 filed Mar. 27 2012 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 598 524 filed Feb. 14 2012. The entirety of each of these applications is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under grant AI25899 awarded by the U.S. Public Health Service National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases NIH. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention is in the field of compounds and their uses and compositions to treat viral infections especially Flaviviridae viruses including Hepatitis C Virus HCV as well as other related conditions.

Flaviviridae are a family of RNA viruses with a single stranded positive sense RNA genome. The RNA viral genome plays important roles during viral replication including as mRNA for viral protein synthesis a template for RNA replication and a nascent RNA genome for a newly formed virus. The family includes the genera Flavivirus Hepacivirus Hepatitis G Virus and Pestivirus.

Major diseases caused by Flaviviridae include hepatitis C Dengue fever West Nile encephalitis Tick borne encephalitis and Yellow fever.

Hepatitis C HCV is a Hepacivirus. It is estimated that 75 of all cases of liver disease is caused by HCV. HCV infection can lead to cirrhosis and liver cancer and can become so serious that a liver transplant is required. Approximately 170 200 million people worldwide are infected with 3 5 million in the United States.

The HCV non structural protein NS5B RNA dependent RNA polymerase is a key component of the replicative complex and is responsible for initiating and catalyzing viral RNA synthesis. As a result the HCV NS5B is an attractive target for the current drug discovery and development of anti HCV agents. There are two major subclasses of NS5B inhibitors nucleoside analogs which are anabolized to their active triphosphates and which act as alternative substrates for the polymerase and non nucleoside inhibitors NNIs which bind to allosteric regions on the protein. Nucleoside or nucleotide inhibitors mimic natural polymerase substrate and act as chain terminators. They inhibit the initiation of RNA transcription and elongation of a nacent RNA chain.

Other HCV proteins that are targets for therapeutic approaches are NS3 4A a serine protease and NS5A a non structural protein that is an essential component of HCV replicase and exerts range of effects on cellular pathways .

Current approved therapies for HCV include interferon alpha 2b or pegylated interferon alpha 2b Pegintron which is administered with ribavirin Rebetol and NS3 4A protease inhibitors telaprevir Incivek Vertex and Johnson Johnson and boceprevir Victrelis Merck .

Several NS5B nucleoside nucleotide polymerase inhibitors have been in clinical trials shown in . 2 C methylcytidine NM107 the valine ester of 2 C methylcytidine valocitabine NM283 was the first polymerase inhibitors in clinical trials and was discontinued due to the GI toxicity. The second nucleoside inhibitor 4 C azido nucleoside R1479 as its tri isobutyl ester prodrug R1626 has been developed by Roche however it was discontinued due to the haematopoetic toxicity. Currently Roche and Pharmasset are developing R7128 mericitabine a prodrug of D 2 deoxy 2 fluoro 2 C methylcytidine PSI6130 . Idenix has been developing a purine analogue 2 C methylguanosine monophosphate prodrug IDX184 however it is currently under clinical hold due to the potential cardiac toxicity concern by the FDA because of the discontinuation of Inhibitex INX 189 due to cardio toxicity. A uridine analogue in a prodrug PSI 7977 form can potently inhibit HCV replication. Recently a 3 5 cyclic phosphate analogue PSI 938 has also been reported as a potent anti HCV agent but has been discontinued due to liver toxicity.

Oh et al. published an article on Design and Synthesis of Novel Carbocyclic Versions of 2 Spirocyclopropyl ribonucleosides as potent anti HCV agents. Oh et al. reported that the synthesized cytosine nucleoside had moderate anti HCV activity ICof 14.4 in Hu7 cell line .

Gadthula et al. published an article on Synthesis and antiviral activity of cyclopropy spirocarbocyclic adenosine 4R 5S 6R 7R 4 6 amino 9H pur 9 yl 7 hydroxymethyl spiro 2.4 heptane 5 6 diol against hepatitis C virus 21 2011 3982 3985 . The titled compound exhibited an ECof 0.273 and 0.368 M in genotypes 1A and 1B respectively in the Hu7 RNA replicon assay.

United States patents which describe nucleoside polymerase inhibitors for the treatment of Flaviviridae including HCV include those filed by Idenix Pharmaceuticals U.S. Pat. Nos. 8 343 937 8 299 038 6 914 054 6 812 219 7 608 597 7 902 202 7 951 789 7 547 704 7 456 155 7 365 057 7 608 600 7 635 689 7 625 875 7 148 206 7 163 929 7 169 766 7 105 493 and 7 157 441 Merck U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 125 855 6 777 395 7 105 499 and 7 202 224 Gilead Sciences U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 973 013 8 324 179 and 8 334 270 Emory University U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 911 424 8 168 583 6 348 587 7 662 938 and 7 307 065 and Pharmasset Inc. U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 429 572 8 093 380 7 964 580 and 6 949 522 .

There remains a strong medical need to develop anti Flaviviridae including anti HCV therapies that are effective well tolerated and reasonably safe. Given the number of people infected with hepatitis C and the potential severity of the infection the need is particularly strong. The need is accentuated by the expectation that combination drug therapies may be most efficacious to treat HCV and other Flaviviridae.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide compounds pharmaceutical compositions and methods and uses to treat and or prevent infections from Flaviviridae viruses including Hepatitis C virus and related conditions and or disease states as otherwise described herein.

Compounds methods and compositions are provided for the treatment of a host infected with a Flaviviridae virus for example a Flavivirus Hepacivirus Hepatitis G Virus or Pestivirus and more particularly Hepatitis C Dengue fever West Nile encephalitis Tick borne encephalitis or Yellow fever. The compounds and compositions can also be used to treat related conditions such as anti Flaviviridae for example anti HCV antibody positive and antigen positive conditions viral based chronic liver inflammation liver cancer resulting from advanced hepatitis C cirrhosis chronic or acute hepatitis C fulminant hepatitis C chronic persistent hepatitis C and anti Flaviviridae based fatigue. The compound or formulations that include the compounds can also be used prophylactically to prevent or retard the progression of clinical illness in individuals who are anti Flaviviridae for example anti HCV antibody or antigen positive or who have been exposed to a Flaviviridae such as hepatitis C.

The invention includes using an effective amount for a host in need thereof of the spiro 2.4 heptane of Formula I or II which have a D type configuration with reference to a corresponding nucleoside or a pharmaceutically acceptable composition salt or prodrug thereof 

In another embodiment in Formula I either Rand Ror Rand R or in Formula II Rand Rtogether form a bridge that may for example be a phosphoester carbodiester or phosphoroamidate.

In an alternative embodiment compounds methods and compositions are provided for the treatment of a host infected with or exposed to a Flaviviridae virus Hepatitis C Dengue fever West Nile encephalitis Tick borne encephalitis or Yellow fever described herein. The invention includes using an effective treatment amount for a host of the spiro 2.4 heptane of Formula III or IV with L type configuration with reference to a corresponding nucleoside or a pharmaceutically acceptable composition salt or prodrug thereof 

The compounds of the invention can be administered alone or in combination with another anti Flaviviridae for example an anti HCV drug to treat the infected host. In certain embodiments it is useful to administer a combination of drugs that modulates a different pathway or inhibits a different target in the virus. Since the disclosed spiro 2.4 heptanes are NS5B polymerase inhibitors it may be useful to administer the compound to a host in combination with a protease inhibitor such as an NS3 4A protease inhibitor for example telaprevir Incivek or biceprevir Victrelis or an NS5A inhibitor. The compound of the invention can also be administered in combination with a structurally different NS5B polymerase inhibitor such as another compound described herein or below including Gilead s PSI 7977 or Roche s PSI 7128. The compounds of the invention can also be administered in combination with interferon alfa 2a which may be pegylated or otherwise modified and or ribavirin.

The spiro 2.4 heptanes of the invention are typically administered orally for example in pill or tablet form but may be administered via other routes which the attending physician considers appropriate including via intravenous transdermal subcutaneous topical parenteral or other suitable route.

The invention disclosed herein is a compound method and composition for the treatment of infections in or exposure to humans and other host animals of the Flaviviridae viruses described herein or otherwise known including HCV that includes the administration of an effective amount of a spiro 2.4 heptane as described herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof optionally in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The compounds of this invention either possess antiviral activity or are metabolized to a compound that exhibits such activity.

The compounds and compositions can also be used to treat related conditions such as anti Flaviviridae antibody positive and Flaviviridae antigen positive conditions viral based chronic liver inflammation liver cancer resulting from advanced hepatitis C cirrhosis acute hepatitis C fulminant hepatitis C chronic persistent hepatitis C and anti Flaviviridae based fatigue. The compounds or formulations that include the compounds can also be used prophylactically to prevent or retard the progression of clinical illness in individuals who are anti Flaviviridae antibody or Flaviviridae antigen positive or who have been exposed to a Flaviviridae such as hepatitis C.

 a spiro 2.4 heptanes as described herein and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof in either the D or L form when considered with respect to corresponding nucleoside structure 

 b spiro 2.4 heptanes with relative D or L configuration as described herein and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof for use in the treatment or prophylaxis of a Flaviviridae infection for example a hepatitis C infection 

 c use of spiro 2.4 heptanes with relative D or L configuration and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof in the manufacture of a medicament for treatment of a Flaviviridae for example a hepatitis C infection 

 d a method for manufacturing a medicament intended for the therapeutic use for treating a Flaviviridae infection for example a hepatitis C infection characterized in that a spiro 2.4 heptane with relative D or L configuration as described herein is used in the manufacture 

 e a pharmaceutical formulation comprising an effective host treating amount of the spiro 2.4 heptane with relative D or L configuration or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent 

 f spiro 2.4 heptane with relative D or L configuration as described herein substantially in the absence of the opposite enantiomer of the described compound or substantially isolated from other chemical entities and 

 g processes for the preparation of therapeutic products that contain an effective amount of a spiro 2.4 heptane with relative D or L configuration as described herein.

The spiro 2.4 heptanes of the invention are those depicted in Formula I or II or a pharmaceutically acceptable composition salt or prodrug thereof 

In an alternative embodiment compounds methods and compositions are provided for the treatment of a host infected with or exposed to hepatitis C or another Flaviviridae virus for example Dengue fever West Nile encephalitis Tick borne encephalitis or Yellow fever . The invention includes using an effective treatment amount for a host of the spiro 2.4 heptane of Formula III or IV with L type configuration with reference to a corresponding nucleoside or a pharmaceutically acceptable composition salt or prodrug thereof 

In a typical embodiment the compound is a D isomer with reference to the corresponding nucleoside i.e. in the naturally occurring configuration . In an alternative configuration the compound is provided as a L isomer. The compound is typically at least 95 free of the opposite enantiomer and can be at least 98 or even 100 free of the opposite enantiomer.

In another embodiment either Rand Ror Rand Rtogether form a bridge that may be for example a phosphoester carbodiester or phosphoramidate.

In another embodiment either of the two CH groups in the cyclopropyl ring can have a substituent for example methyl halogen F Cl Br or I OH or N. In general if a substituent is placed on the cyclopropyl ring it should be small due to potential steric hindrance in the position. Typically the cyclopropyl group is unsubstituted.

In certain aspects of the invention of any of the spiro 2.4 heptanes described herein Ris according to the formula 

In still other embodiments Ris uracil thymine cytosine 5 methylcytosine 7 deazaadenine guanine xanthine or hypoxanthine. In some embodiments B is uracil cytosine or guanine. Alternatively in certain embodiments B is cytosine uracil thymine or guanine where Ris H an acyl group a C Calkyl or ether group or an amino acid residue D or L as described above.

In alternative embodiments of compounds i through xxi Formula III or IV is used in place of either Formula I or II.

Since Flaviviridae are positive stranded RNA viruses in one embodiment an Ror B is selected which the host would mimic or be related to an RNA base such as uracil cytosine guanine or adenosine or a base that is easily metabolized to an RNA base. In an alternative embodiment the active spiro 2.4 heptane has an Ror B that is a derivative of an RNA base for example a prodrug of uracil cytosine guanine or adenosine or a halogenated alkylated phosphorylated or acylated derivative.

The following terms are used to describe the present invention. In instances where a term is not specifically defined herein that term is given an art recognized meaning by those of ordinary skill applying that term in context to its use in describing the present invention.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug is used throughout the specification to describe any pharmaceutically acceptable form such as an ester phosphate ester salt of an ester or a related group of a spiro 2.4 heptane which upon administration to a patient provides the desired active compound. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts are organic acid addition salts formed with acids which form a physiological acceptable anion for example tosylate methanesulfonate acetate citrate malonate tartarate succinate benzoate ascorbate ketoglutarate and glycerophosphate. Suitable inorganic salts may also be formed including sulfate nitrate bicarbonate and carbonate salts. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts may be obtained using standard procedures well known in the art for example by reacting a sufficiently basic compound such as an amine with a suitable acid affording a physiologically acceptable anion. Alkali metal for example sodium potassium or lithium or alkaline earth metal for example calcium salts of carboxylic acids can also be made.

Pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug refers to a compound that is metabolized for example hydrolyzed or oxidized in the host to form the compound of the present invention. Typical examples of prodrugs include compounds that have biologically labile protecting groups on a functional moiety of the active compound. Prodrugs include compounds that can be oxidized reduced aminated deaminated hydroxylated dehydroxylated hydrolyzed dehydrolyzed alkylated dealkylated acylated deacylated phosphorylated dephosphorylated or dephosphoamidated to produce the active compound. The compounds of this invention possess antiviral activity against Flaviviridae or are metabolized to a compound that exhibits such activity. The spiro 2.4 heptane can also be administered as a 5 phosphoether lipid or a 5 ether lipid or a SATE derivative

The term alkyl shall mean within its context a linear branch chained or cyclic fully saturated hydrocarbon radical or alkyl group which may be optionally substituted for example with halogen including F .

The term alkenyl refers to a non aromatic hydrocarbon group which contains at least one double bond between adjacent carbon atoms and a similar structure to an alkyl group as otherwise described herein. For example a vinyl group is an alkenyl group as otherwise described herein.

The term alkynyl refers to a non aromatic hydrocarbon group containing at least one triple bond between adjacent carbon atoms and a similar structure to an alkyl group as otherwise described herein.

The term substituted indicates that the moiety may have at least one additional substituent including but not limited to halogen F Cl Br I OH methyl CF phenyl benzyl N alkyl alkenyl alkynyl etc.

The term aryl or aromatic in context refers to a substituted as otherwise described herein or unsubstituted monovalent aromatic radical having a single ring e.g. benzene phenyl benzyl or condensed rings e.g. naphthyl anthracenyl phenanthrenyl etc. and can be bound to the compound according to the present invention at any available stable position on the ring s or as otherwise indicated in the chemical structure presented.

A heteroaryl ring system is a saturated or unsaturated ring with one or more nitrogen oxygen or sulfur atoms in the ring monocyclic including but not limited to imidazole furyl pyrrole furanyl thiene thiazole pyridine pyrimidine pyrazine triazole oxazole or fused ring systems such as indole quinoline etc. among others which may be optionally substituted as described above. Heteroaryl groups include nitrogen containing heteroaryl groups such as pyrrole pyridine pyridone pyridazine pyrimidine pyrazine pyrazole imidazole triazole triazine tetrazole indole isoindole indolizine purine indazole quinoline isoquinoline quinolizine phthalazine naphthyridine quinoxaline quinazoline cinnoline pteridine imidazopyridine imidazotriazine pyrazinopyridazine acridine phenanthridine carbazole carbazoline perimidine phenanthroline phenacene oxadiazole benzimidazole pyrrolopyridine pyrrolopyrimidine and pyridopyrimidine sulfur containing aromatic heterocycles such as thiophene and benzothiophene oxygen containing aromatic heterocycles such as furan pyran cyclopentapyran benzofuran and isobenzofuran and aromatic heterocycles comprising two or more hetero atoms selected from among nitrogen sulfur and oxygen such as thiazole thiadizole isothiazole benzoxazole benzothiazole benzothiadiazole phenothiazine isoxazole furazan phenoxazine pyrazoloxazole imidazothiazole thienofuran furopyrrole pyridoxazine furopyridine furopyrimidine thienopyrimidine and oxazole among others all of which may be optionally substituted.

The term heterocycle refers to a cyclic group which contains at least one heteroatom i.e. O N or S and may be aromatic heteroaryl or non aromatic. Exemplary non aromatic heterocyclic groups for use in the present invention include for example pyrrolidinyl pyrrolinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl N methylpiperazinyl imidazolinyl pyrazolidinyl imidazolidinyl morpholinyl tetrahydropyranyl azetidinyl oxetanyl oxathiolanyl pyridone 2 pyrrolidone ethyleneurea 1 3 dioxolane 1 3 dioxane 1 4 dioxane phthalimide and succinimide among others.

In one embodiment the term purine or pyrimidine base includes but is not limited to adenine N alkylpurines N acylpurines wherein acyl is C O alkyl aryl alkylaryl or arylalkyl N benzylpurine N halopurine N vinylpurine N acetylenic purine N acyl purine N hydroxyalkyl purine N thioalkyl purine N alkylpurines N alkyl 6 thiopurines thymine cytosine 5 fluorocytosine 5 methylcytosine 6 azapyrimidine including 6 azacytosine 2 and or 4 mercaptopyrmidine uracil 5 halouracil including 5 fluorouracil C alkylpyrimidines C benzylpyrimidines C halopyrimidines C vinylpyrimidine C acetylenic pyrimidine C acyl pyrimidine C hydroxyalkyl purine C amidopyrimidine C cyanopyrimidine C nitropyrimidine C aminopyrimidine N alkylpurines N alkyl 6 thiopurines 5 azacytidinyl 5 azauracilyl triazolopyridinyl imidazolopyridinyl pyrrolopyrimidinyl and pyrazolo pyrimidinyl. Purine bases include but are not limited to guanine adenine hypoxanthine 2 6 diaminopurine and 6 chloropurine. Functional oxygen and nitrogen groups on the base can be protected as necessary or desired. Suitable protecting groups are well known to those skilled in the art and include trimethylsilyl trimethylhexylsilyl t butyldimethylsilyl and t butyldiphenylsilyl trityl alkyl groups and acyl groups such as acetyl and propionyl methanesulfonyl and p toluenesulfonyl. Alternatively the purine or pyrimidine base can optionally be substituted such that it forms a viable prodrug which can be cleaved in vivo. Examples of appropriate substituents include acyl moiety an amine or cyclopropyl e.g. 2 amino 2 6 diamino or cyclopropyl guanosine .

The term acyl refers to a carboxylic acid ester in which the non carbonyl moiety of the ester group is selected from straight branched or cyclic alkyl or lower alkyl i.e. C C alkoxyalkyl including methoxymethyl aralkyl including benzyl aryloxyalkyl such as phenoxymethyl aryl including phenyl optionally substituted with halogen Cto Calkyl or Cto Calkoxy sulfonate esters such as alkyl or aralkyl sulphonyl including methanesulfonyl the mono di or triphosphate ester trityl or monomethoxytrityl substituted benzyl trialkylsilyl e.g. dimethyl t butylsilyl or diphenylmethylsilyl. Aryl groups in the esters optimally comprise a phenyl group. The term lower acyl refers to an acyl group in which the non carbonyl moiety is lower alkyl i.e. C1 C .

The term amino acid or amino acid residue refers to a D or L natural or non naturally occurring amino acid. Representative amino acids alanine alanine arginine asparagine aspartic acid cysteine cystine glutamic acid glutamine glycine phenylalanine histidine isoleucine lysine leucine methionine proline serine threonine valine tryptophan or tyrosine among others.

The term oxygen protecting group as used herein refers to a moiety that is covalently attached to oxygen and which can be removed and typically replaced with hydrogen when appropriate. For example an oxygen protecting group may be a group that is removed in vivo after administration to a host in vitro by a cell or it may be removed during a manufacturing process.

The term phosphoamidate phosphoramidate or phosphoroamidate is a moiety that has a phosphorus bound to three oxygen groups and an amine which may optionally be substituted . The typical structure is P O OR OR NRR where R R R and Rcan be H or desired organic substituents. Suitable phosphoramidates useful in the present invention are described by Madela Karolina and McGuigan in 2012 Progress in the development of anti hepatitis C virus nucleoside and nucleotide prodrugs 4 5 pages 625 650 10 1021 jm300074y. Additional phosphoramidates useful in the present invention are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 964 580 8 071 568 8 148 349 7 879 815 7 902 202 7 547 704 7 951 789 8 324 179 EP 2120565 EP 1143995 6 455 513 and 8 334 270. Other phosphoramidates are described in the nucleoside patents described in the Background of the Invention.

Preferred Rgroups include optionally substituted C Calkyl groups and optionally substituted phenyl naphthyl and monocyclic heteroaryl groups especially those groups particularly lipophilic groups which enhance bioavailability of the compounds in the skin of the patient and which exhibit reduced toxicity enhanced therapeutic index and enhanced pharmacokinetics the compounds are metabolized and excreted more slowly .

The term D configuration as used in the context of the present invention refers to the principle configuration which mimics the natural configuration of sugar moieties as opposed to the unnatural occurring nucleosides or L configuration. The term or anomer is used with reference to nucleoside analogs in which the nucleoside base is configured disposed above the plane of the carbocyclic moiety in the nucleoside analog.

The terms coadminister and coadministration or combination therapy are used to describe the administration of at least one of the spiro 2.4 compounds according to the present invention in combination with at least one other anti Flaviviridae agent often at least one additional anti HCV agent including other spiro 2.4 heptane anti HCV agents which are disclosed herein. The timing of the coadministration is best determined by the medical specialist treating the patient. It is sometimes preferred that the agents be administered at the same time. Alternatively the drugs selected for combination therapy may be administered at different times to the patient. Of course when more than one viral or other infection or other condition is present the present compounds may be combined with other agents to treat that other infection or condition as required.

The term host as used herein refers to a unicellular or multicellular organism in which the virus can replicate including cell lines and animals and typically a human. Alternatively the host can be carrying a part of the flavivirus or pestivirus genome whose replication or function can be altered by the compounds of the present invention. The term host specifically refers to infected cells cells transfected with all or part of the Flaviviridae for example HCV genome and animals in particular primates including chimpanzees and humans. In most animal applications of the present invention the host is a human patient. Veterinary applications in certain indications however are clearly anticipated by the present invention such as chimpanzees . A number of the Flaviviridae viruses are specific with respect to the host animal that is infected and in those instances the term host refers to those animals including humans infected or susceptible to infection by that Flaviviridae. The host can be for example bovine equine avian canine feline etc.

Treatment as used herein refers to the administration of an active compound to a host that is infected with a Flaviviridae virus for example hepatitis C. The term prophylactic or preventative when used refers to the administration of an active compound to prevent or reduce the likelihood of an occurrence of the viral disorder. The present invention includes both treatment and prophylactic or preventative therapies. In one embodiment the active compound is administered to a host who has been exposed to and thus at risk of infection by a Flaviviridae for example a hepatitis C infection.

The invention is directed to a method of treatment or prophylaxis of a Flaviviridae viral infection in a host in need thereof including hepatitis C virus Yellow Fever virus Dengue virus Japanese Encephalitis and West Nile viruses especially HCV including drug resistant and multidrug resistant forms of HCV and related disease states conditions or complications of an HCV infection including cirrhosis and related hepatotoxicities as well as other conditions that are secondary to a Flaviviridae infection such as weakness loss of appetite weight loss breast enlargement especially in men rash especially on the palms difficulty with clotting of blood spider like blood vessels on the skin confusion coma encephalopathy buildup of fluid in the abdominal cavity ascites esophageal varices portal hypertension kidney failure enlarged spleen decrease in blood cells anemia thrombocytopenia jaundice and hepatocellular cancer among others. The method comprises administering to a host in need thereof of an effective amount of at least one spiro 2.4 heptane as described herein optionally in combination with at least one additional bioactive agent for example an additional anti HCV or anti Flaviviridae and or anticancer agent further in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier additive and or excipient.

In yet another aspect the present invention is a method for prevention or prophylaxis of a Flaviviridae infection such as an HCV infection or a disease state or related or follow on disease state condition or complication of a Flaviviridae including an HCV infection including cirrhosis and related hepatotoxicities weakness loss of appetite weight loss breast enlargement especially in men rash especially on the palms difficulty with clotting of blood spider like blood vessels on the skin confusion coma encephalopathy buildup of fluid in the abdominal cavity ascites esophageal varices portal hypertension kidney failure enlarged spleen decrease in blood cells anemia thrombocytopenia jaundice and hepatocellular liver cancer among others said method comprising administering to a patient at risk with an effective amount of at least one compound according to the present invention as described above in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier additive or excipient optionally in combination with another anti HCV agent. In another embodiment the active compounds of the invention can be administered to a patient after a hepatitis related liver transplantation to protect the new organ.

The spiro 2.4 heptane can be administered if desired as any salt or prodrug that upon administration to the recipient is capable of providing directly or indirectly the parent compound or that exhibits activity itself. Nonlimiting examples are the pharmaceutically acceptable salts and a compound which has been modified at a function group such as a hydroxyl or amine function to modify the biological activity pharmacokinetics half life controlled delivery lipophilicity absorption kinetics ease of phosphorylation to the active 5 triphosphate or efficiency of delivery using a desired route of administration of the compound. Methods to modify the properties of an active compound to achieve target properties are known to those of skill in the art or can easily be assessed by standard methods for example acylation phosphorylation phosphoamidation phosphonation alkylation pegylation or selecting an Ror B that is metabolized to a desired Ror B.

In an aspect of the invention pharmaceutical compositions according to the present invention comprise an anti Flaviviridae especially including an anti HCV effective amount of at least one of the spiro 2.4 compounds described herein optionally in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier additive or excipient further optionally in combination with at least one other anti viral such as an anti HCV agent.

The invention includes pharmaceutical compositions that include an effective amount to treat a Flaviviridae infection for example a hepatitis C infection of one of the spiro 2.4 heptane compounds of the present invention or its salt or prodrug in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. In an alternative embodiment the invention includes pharmaceutical compositions that include an effective amount to prevent a Flaviviridae infection for example a hepatitis C infection of one of the spiro 2.4 heptane compounds of the present invention or its salt or prodrug in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.

One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that a therapeutically effective amount will vary with the infection or condition to be treated its severity the treatment regimen to be employed the pharmacokinetics of the agent used as well as the patient or subject animal or human to be treated and such therapeutic amount can be determined by the attending physician or specialist.

The spiro 2.4 heptane compound according to the present invention can be formulated in admixture with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. In general it is preferable to administer the pharmaceutical composition in orally administrable form but certain formulations may be administered via a parenteral intravenous intramuscular topical transdermal buccal subcutaneous suppository or other route including intranasal spray. Intravenous and intramuscular formulations are often administered in sterile saline. One of ordinary skill in the art may modify the formulations to render them more soluble in water or other vehicle for example may be easily accomplished by minor modifications salt formulation esterification etc. which are well within the ordinary skill in the art. It is also well within the routineer s skill to modify the route of administration and dosage regimen of a particular compound in order to manage the pharmacokinetics of the present compounds for maximum beneficial effect in patients.

In certain pharmaceutical dosage forms the pro drug form of the compounds especially including acylated acetylated or other and ether alkyl and related derivatives phosphate esters phosphoramidates and various salt forms of the present compounds are preferred. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize how to readily modify the present compounds to pro drug forms to facilitate delivery of active compounds to a targeted site within the host organism or patient. The routineer also will take advantage of favorable pharmacokinetic parameters of the pro drug forms where applicable in delivering the present compounds to a targeted site within the host organism or patient to maximize the intended effect of the compound.

The amount of compound included within therapeutically active formulations according to the present invention is an effective amount for treating the Flaviviridae infection or condition for example an HCV infection reducing the likelihood of a HCV infection or the inhibition reduction and or abolition of HCV or its secondary effects including disease states conditions and or complications which occur secondary to HCV. In general a therapeutically effective amount of the present compound in pharmaceutical dosage form usually ranges from about 0.001 mg kg to about 100 mg kg per day or more more often slightly less than about 0.1 mg kg to more than about 25 mg kg per day of the patient or considerably more depending upon the compound used the condition or infection treated and the route of administration. The active nucleoside compound according to the present invention is often administered in amounts ranging from about 0.1 mg kg to about 15 mg kg per day of the patient depending upon the pharmacokinetics of the agent in the patient. This dosage range generally produces effective blood level concentrations of active compound which may range from about 0.001 to about 100 about 0.05 to about 100 micrograms cc of blood in the patient.

Often to treat prevent or delay the onset of these infections and or to reduce the likelihood of a Flaviviridae infection for example an HCV infection or a secondary disease state condition or complication of HCV the compositions will be administered in oral dosage form in amounts ranging from about 250 micrograms up to about 500 mg or more at least once a day for example at least 25 50 100 150 250 or 500 milligrams up to four times a day. The present compounds are often administered orally but may be administered parenterally topically or in suppository form as well as intranasally as a nasal spray or as otherwise described herein.

In the case of the co administration of the present compounds in combination with another anti HCV or Flaviviridae compound as otherwise described herein the amount of the compound according to the present invention to be administered ranges from about 0.01 mg kg of the patient to about 500 mg kg. or more of the patient or considerably more depending upon the second agent to be co administered and its potency against the virus the condition of the patient and severity of the disease or infection to be treated and the route of administration. The other anti HCV or anti Flaviviridae agent may for example be administered in amounts ranging from about 0.01 mg kg to about 500 mg kg. In certain preferred embodiments these compounds may be often administered in an amount ranging from about 0.5 mg kg to about 50 mg kg or more usually up to about 100 mg kg generally depending upon the pharmacokinetics of the two agents in the patient. These dosage ranges generally produce effective blood level concentrations of active compound in the patient.

For purposes of the present invention a prophylactically or preventive effective amount of the compositions according to the present invention falls within the same concentration range as set forth above for therapeutically effective amount and is usually the same as a therapeutically effective amount.

Administration of the active compound may range from continuous intravenous drip to several oral or intranasal administrations per day for example Q.I.D. or transdermal administration and may include oral topical parenteral intramuscular intravenous sub cutaneous transdermal which may include a penetration enhancement agent buccal and suppository administration among other routes of administration. Enteric coated oral tablets may also be used to enhance bioavailability of the compounds from an oral route of administration. The most effective dosage form will depend upon the bioavailability pharmacokinetics of the particular agent chosen as well as the severity of disease in the patient. Oral dosage forms are particularly preferred because of ease of administration and prospective favorable patient compliance.

To prepare the pharmaceutical compositions according to the present invention a therapeutically effective amount of one or more of the compounds according to the present invention is often intimately admixed with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier according to conventional pharmaceutical compounding techniques to produce a dose. A carrier may take a wide variety of forms depending on the form of preparation desired for administration e.g. oral or parenteral. In preparing pharmaceutical compositions in oral dosage form any of the usual pharmaceutical media may be used. Thus for liquid oral preparations such as suspensions elixirs and solutions suitable carriers and additives including water glycols oils alcohols flavoring agents preservatives coloring agents and the like may be used. For solid oral preparations such as powders tablets capsules and for solid preparations such as suppositories suitable carriers and additives including starches sugar carriers such as dextrose manifold lactose and related carriers diluents granulating agents lubricants binders disintegrating agents and the like may be used. If desired the tablets or capsules may be enteric coated or sustained release by standard techniques. The use of these dosage forms may significantly enhance the bioavailability of the compounds in the patient.

For parenteral formulations the carrier will usually comprise sterile water or aqueous sodium chloride solution though other ingredients including those which aid dispersion also may be included. Of course where sterile water is to be used and maintained as sterile the compositions and carriers must also be sterilized. Injectable suspensions may also be prepared in which case appropriate liquid carriers suspending agents and the like may be employed.

Liposomal suspensions including liposomes targeted to viral antigens may also be prepared by conventional methods to produce pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. This may be appropriate for the delivery of free nucleosides acyl alkyl nucleosides or phosphate ester pro drug forms of the nucleoside compounds according to the present invention.

In particularly preferred embodiments according to the present invention the compounds and compositions are used to treat prevent or delay a HCV infection or a secondary disease state condition or complication of HCV.

It is well recognized that drug resistant variants of viruses can emerge after prolonged treatment with an antiviral agent. Drug resistance most typically occurs by mutation of a gene that encodes for an enzyme used in viral replication. The efficacy of a drug against a Flaviviridae infection including an HCV infection can be prolonged augmented or restored by administering the compound in combination or alternation with another and perhaps even two or three other antiviral compounds that induce a different mutation or act through a different pathway from that of the principle drug. Alternatively the pharmacokinetics bio distribution half life or other parameter of the drug can be altered by such combination therapy which may include alternation therapy if considered concerted . Since the disclosed spiro 2.4 heptanes are NS5B polymerase inhibitors it may be useful to administer the compound to a host in combination with for example a 

Non limiting examples of anti HCV agents that can be administered in combination with the spiro 2.4 heptanes of the invention are 

If the spiro 2.4 heptane is administered to treat advanced hepatitis C leading to liver cancer or cirrhosis in one embodiment the compound can be administered in combination or alternation with another drug that is typically used to treat hepatocellular carcinoma HCC for example as described by Andrew Zhu in New Agents on the Horizon in Hepatocellular Carcinoma Therapeutic Advances in Medical Oncology V 5 1 January 2013 41 50. Examples of suitable compounds for combination therapy where the host has or is at risk of HCC include anti angiogenic agents sunitinib brivanib linifanib ramcirumab bavcizumab cediranib pazopanib TSU 68 lenvatinib antibodies against EGFR mTor inhibitors MEK inhibitors and histone decetylace inhibitors.

General methods for providing the compounds of the present invention are known in the art or described herein. Examples of processes to prepare the described compounds are set out in detail in with details of reagents provided in the Brief Description of the Figures which can be used as desired or with minor modification within the routineer s skill. Further exemplication is provided below in the detailed synthetic examples.

Melting points were determined on a Mel temp II laboratory device and are uncorrected. Nuclear magnetic spectra were recorded on Varian Mercury 400 spectrometer at 400 MHz for H NMR and 100 MHz for C NMR or Varian Inova 500 spectrometer at 500 MHz for H NMR and 125 MHz for C NMR with tetramethylsilane as an internal standard. Chemical shifts are quoted as s singlet bs broad singlet d doublet t triplet q quartet m multiplet . U.V spectra were recorded on a Beckman DU 650 spectrophotometer. Optical rotations were measured on JASCO DIP 370 digital polarimeter. High resolution mass spectra were recorded on a Micromass Autospec high resolution mass spectrometer. Elemental analyses were performed by Atlantic Microlabs Inc. Norcross Ga. TLC was performed on Uniplates Silica Gel purchased from Analtech Co.

A solution of di tert butyl dicarbonate 110.0 g 504.5 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 50 ml was added slowly to a suspension of racemic 1 50.0 g 403.2 mmol and 4 dimethylaminopyridine 0.5 g 4.0 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 150 ml . The brown hazy solution was stirred at 20 C. until reaction was complete. The solution was concentrated in vacuo to give brown foam. Recrystallisation twice from cyclohexane afforded the product 2 racemic as pale pink crystals 80.8 g 80 mp 70.5 71.5 C. H NMR CDCl3 1.5 s 5H 2.15 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 2.35 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 3.39 s 1H 4.96 s 1H 6.66 m 1H 6.89 dd J 5.6 2.1 Hz 1H MS M H 210.

Savinase 15 ml 16 L was added to a solution 500 ml containing 10 g 47.8 mmol of 2 in 50 tetrahydrofuran 50 phosphate buffer 50 mM pH 8.0 at 30 C. The reaction was monitored by TLC for up to 2 days. Upon completion of the reaction 51 conversion the pH of the clarified solution was raised to 9 with a sodium bicarbonate solution. This was then extracted with cyclohexane 200 mL 2 . The combined organic phase was back extracted with 100 ml of sodium bicarbonate solution and subsequently washed with 100 ml of brine. Evaporation and drying yielded brown crude. The obtain crude was purified by the column chromatography eluent 20 EtOAc hexane gave free flowing white solid 3 4.2 g 84 which was identified by 1H NMR and by with an authentic enantiomerically pure standard optical rotation of standard 194 c 2.0 CHCl . The enantiomeric excess was better than 99 as analyzed by the optical rotation. Mp 88.6 C. 193 c 2.0 CHCl H NMR CDCl 1.5 s 5H 2.15 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 2.35 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 3.39 s 1H 4.96 s 1H 6.66 m 1H 6.89 dd J 5.6 2.1 Hz 1H .

To a solution of tert butyl 3 oxo 2 azabicyclo 2.2.1 hept 5 ene 2 carboxylate 3 50.0 g 239.2 mmol in acetone 200 mL N Methylmorpholine N oxide 55.9 g 477.7 mmol was added at 0 C. with stirring followed by a solution of OsO 121 mg 0.476 mmol in tert butyl alcohol 2.5 mL and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hr. Solvents were evaporated in vacuo and the residue was purified by flash column chromatography on silica gel using 30 EtOH hexane as the eluent to give a white solid 35 g 70 . 28.19 c 1.0 CHCl H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 4.33 m 1H 4.24 m 1H 4.09 m 1H 3.92 brs 1H 3.76 brs 1H 2.80 m 1H 2.10 d J 10.5 Hz 1H 1.99 d J 10.5 Hz 1H 1.52 s 9H HR MS Calcd. For CHNO H 244.1107. found 244.1321.

Benzoyl chloride 11.9 mL 102.8 mmol was added into a solution of diol 4 10.0 g 41.1 mmol and DMAP 7.5 g 61.4 mmol in anhydrous dichloromethane 150 ml at 0 C. The mixture was then stirred for 1 hr quenched with water and the mixture was extracted with DCM 50 mL 2 . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 150 mL dried over NaSO. The solvent was removed and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography 8 EtOAc hexane to give benzoylated intermediate as white solid. 43.40 H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.82 m 4H 7.50 m 2H 7.25 m 4H 5.59 d J 5.5 Hz 1H 5.48 d J 5.5 Hz 1H 4.70 m 1H 3.13 m 1H 2.43 d J 10.5 Hz 1H 2.76 d J 10.5 Hz 1H 1.57 s 9H . The bezoylated intermediated 12.0 g 26.6 mmol dissolved in the Methanol and added sodium borohydried 2.7 g 66.5 mmol at 0 C. The reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature. After 1.5 hr mixture was quenched with 1 N HCl and concentrated in vacuo. The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 100 mL 2 and combine organic layers were washed with water dried over NaSOand concentrated in reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography 50 DCM hexane to give compound 5 8.5 g 95 as off white solid. mp 78 79 C. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.97 m 4H 7.54 m 2H 7.38 m 4H 5.56 m 1H 5.38 s 1H 5.30 m 1H 4.52 m 1H 3.87 m 1H 3.72 m 1H 2.52 m 2H 1.43 s 9H HR MS Calcd. For CHNO H 456.1944. found 456.2017.

2 N solution of HCl in ether 15 ml was added in stirring solution of compound 5 10.0 g 21.9 mmol in methanol at 0 C. The mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature gradually and continue stirred for 2 hr. Solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure and the residue was treated with anhydrous ether 120 mL to precipitate the product 6. The precipitated product was washed with ether 50 mL 2 afforded the titled compound as white solid. 28.19 H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 8.40 bs 2H DO exchange NH 7.88 m 4H 7.64 m 2H 7.45 m 4H 5.48 m 2H 5.07 m 1H 3.96 m 1H 3.61 m 1H 3.52 m 1H 2.47 and 2.39 m 1H 1.63 m 1H HR MS Calcd. For CHNO 355.1420. found 335.1293.

To a well stirred solution of 1R 2S 3R 5R 3 amino 5 hydroxymethyl cyclopentane 1 2 diyl dibenzoate hydrochloride 6 10.0 g 25.5 mmol in mixture of acetonitrile water 1 1 was added sodium nitrite 8.8 g 127.8 mmol by portion wise at 0 C. After 15 minutes 50 aqueous acetic acid solution was added drop wise over a period of 0.5 hr and the mixture was vigorously stirred for 2 hr. The organic solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the rest of mixture was quenched with water. The aqueous phase was extracted with EtOAc 50 mL 3 . The combined organic layers were dried over NaSO filtered and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by flash silica gel column chromatography 20 EtOAc hexane to give compound 7. 156 c 1.0 CHCl H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 8.05 m 2H 7.89 m 2H 7.52 m 2H 7.38 m 2H 7.28 m 2H 6.11 m 3H 5.54 m 1H 3.87 3.82 m 2H 3.27 m 1H 2.29 m 1H . HR MS Calcd. For CHNO H 339.1154. found 339.1286.

To a stirred solution of 1R 2S 5R 5 hydroxymethyl cyclopent 3 ene 1 2 diyl dibenzoate 7 7.5 g 22.1 mmol in methanol at room temperature under Natmosphere was added drop wise sodium methoxide 25 by wt in methanol 14.3 mL 77.66 mmol over a period of 20 minutes. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hr and quenched drop wise with 1N HCl solution to the pH neutral. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the obtained residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography 5 MeOH DCM to give triol 8 2 g 71 as an oil 254.04 c 1.0 MeOH H NMR 500 MHz CDOD 2.78 d J 5.0 Hz 1H 3.73 dd J 5.0 11.0 Hz 1H 3.55 dd J 6.5 10.5 Hz 1H 3.93 t 1H 4.50 t 1H 5.88 5.87 m 1H 5.97 d J 6.0 Hz 1H C NMR 125 MHz CDOD 53.7 62.2 73.2 74.5 132.0 135.0 HR MS Calcd. For CHO H 129.0630. found 129.0553.

To a stirred mixture of compound 8 4.0 g 30.7 mmol in dry acetone 30 mL cooled at 0 C. was added PTSA 0.18 g 0.92 mmol and 2 2 dimethoxy propane drop wise 4.5 mL 36.9 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hr quenched with solid NaHCO 0.15 g 1.84 mmol and the suspension was filtered through celite pad. The celite bed was washed with acetone 20 mL and filtrate was concentrated under vacuum. The crude acetonide was purified by silica gel column chromatography 10 EtOAc Hexane to give acetonide intermediate 4.0 g 76 as an oil. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 5.94 5.93 m 1H 5.78 5.76 m 1H 5.16 5.15 m 1H 4.61 4.60 m 1H 3.76 3.73 m 1H 3.58 3.55 m 1H 3.00 2.99 m 1H 1.95 br OH 1.43 s 3H 1.36 s 3H . A stirred solution of acetonide intermediate 4.0 g 23.5 mmol and imidazole 4.8 g 70.5 mmol in dry dichloromethane 50 mL was cooled at 0 C. TBDMSCl 7.09 g 47.0 mmol was added in mixture and continue stirred overnight at room temperature under nitrogen atmosphere. The mixture was diluted with 100 mL dichloromethane and washed with a saturated solution of NHCl 50 ml 2 finally with water 50 ml . The organic layer was dried over NaSOand concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography to give 9 as an oil 5.3 g 80 86.39 c 0.2 CHCl H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 5.83 5.81 m 1H 5.73 5.71 m 1H 5.09 5.07 m 1H 4.51 4.49 m 1H 3.67 3.65 m 1H 3.55 3.52 m 1H 2.99 2.91 m 1H 1.39 s 3H 1.33 s 3H 0.89 0.85 m 9H 0.082 0.014 m 6H . HR MS Calcd. For CHOSi H 453.2019. found 453.2123.

To a stirred solution of compound 9 5.0 g 17.5 mmol in dichloromethane 40 mL at room temperature was added portion wise m CPBA 13.6 g 78.9 mmol . Mixture was stirred at room temperature for 6 h quenched with saturated NaHCOsolution and the mixture was extracted with DCM 50 mL 2 . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 40 mL 2 dried over NaSO. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography 3 EtOAc Hexane to give epoxide 10 3.5 g 66 as an oil. 58.19 c 1.0 CHCl H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 4.54 4.52 m 1H 3.91 3.90 m 1H 3.73 3.69 m 1H 3.59 3.55 m 3H 2.316 2.311 m 1H 1.38 s 3H 1.22 s 3H 0.83 0.82 m 9H 0.006 0.000 m 6H HR MS Calcd. For CHOSi H 301.1757. found 301.1895.

To a 10 C. suspension of trimethylsulfonium iodide 30 g 149.5 mmol in THF 150 mL was added n BuLi 2.5 M hexane solution 46.0 mL 83.0 mmol . After 30 min epoxide 10 5.0 g 16.6 mmol in THF 20 mL was introduced and the reaction slowly allowed to warm to 0 C. over 1 h the mixture was then stirred at ambient temperature for 2 hr. The reaction was quenched with water and extracted with ethyl acetate 50 mL 2 . The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under vacuum. The residues were purified on silica gel column chromatography 10 EtOAc Hexane to give allylic alcohol 11 4 g 80 as an oil. 20.35 c 2.0 CHCl H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 5.31 s 1H 5.11 s 1H 4.52 d J 6 Hz 1H 4.32 4.31 m 1H 4.13 4.11 m 1H 3.81 3.79 m 2H 3.62 3.60 m 1H 3.91 3.90 m 1H 2.62 br 1H 1.30 s 3H 1.20 s 3H 0.80 m 9H 0.013 0.006 m 6H C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 157.9 115.9 92.6 88.8 84.1 72.4 59.0 32.6 31.5 30.4 24.0 0.05 HR MS Calcd. For CHOSi H 315.1913. found 315.1892.

To a stirred solution of allylic alcohol 11 4 g 12.7 mmol was added dess marline 8.1 g 19.7 mmol at 0 C. The mixture was warm to ambient temperature and stirred for 1 hr. The mixture was passed through celite bed and obtained filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure to give crude allylic ketone which was proceeded as such in next step without further purification. The crude allylic ketone 3.5 g 11.1 mmol was dissolved in anhydrous methanol cooled the solution at 78 C. Added CeCl.7HO 5.8 g 15.6 mmol at 78 C. and after 10 minutes stirring NaBH 0.54 g 14.5 mmol was added at one portion. After 15 min stirring at 78 C. the reaction mixture was allowed to 0 C. then saturated NHCl 30 mL was added and the mixture was allowed to stir for 1 hr. Solvent was removed under reduced temperature and pressure and the residue was extracted with DCM 200 mL 2 . The combined DCM extracts were washed with brine 40 mL 2 dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified by flash silica gel column chromatography 5 EtOAc hexane to give compound 12 3.2 g 80 as oil. 96.878 c 2.01 CHCl H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 5.26 s 1H 5.10 s 1H 4.52 m 2 3 H s 2H 4.4 m 1H 1 H 3.71 dd J 4 10 Hz 1H 5 Ha 3.53 dd J 4 10 Hz 5 Hb 1H 2.57 br 1H 2.29 d J 10.5 Hz DO exchange OH 1.38 s 3H 1.30 s 3H 0.85 m 9H 0.013 0.006 m 6H . C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 159.01 115.9 115.4 86.85 84.85 79.48 71.63 57.21 32.13 31.54 30.33 23.83 0.015 HR MS Calcd. For CHOSi H 315.1913. found 315.1987.

To a solution of 12 3 g 9.5 mmol in anhydrous ether 50 mL was added diethyl zinc 1.0 M solution in hexane 24.2 mL 28.6 mmol followed by diiodomethane 4.6 mL 57.3 mmol at 0 C. The reaction mixture was allowed to room temperature and was refluxed for 8 hr. The reaction mixture was cooled to 0 C. and quenched with saturated NHCl solution 20 mL and extracted with ether 2 60 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water 30 mL brine 30 mL dried over NaSOand concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by column chromatography 5 EtOAc hexane to afford 13 3.0 g 93 as an oil. 86.03 c 2.01 CHCl H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 4.55 m 1H 4.49 m 1H 4.08 m 1H 3.59 dd J 3.0 9.5 Hz 3.50 dd J 4.5 10.5 Hz 1H 2.22 d J 10.5 Hz DO exchange OH 1H 1.57 m 1H 1.44 s 3H 1.31 s 3H 0.84 m 10H 0.43 m 1H 0.32 m 1H 0.24 1H 0.06 s 6H . C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 159.01 115.9 115.4 86.85 84.85 79.48 71.63 57.21 32.13 31.54 30.33 29.24 23.83 7.14 0.015 HR MS Calcd. For CHOSi 328.2070. found 328.2195.

Compound 13 0.5 g 1.52 mmol and PPh 0.8 g 3.04 mmol were dissolved in anhydrous THF 20 mL diisopropylethylamine 0.5 mL 3.04 mmol was added and the mixture cooled to 10 C. DIAD 0.62 mL 3.04 mmol was then added slowly over 15 min at temperature 10 C. and the reaction mixture stirred for 10 min. DPPA 0.66 mL 3.08 mmol was then added drop wise over 10 min at 15 C. and the reaction mixture was warmed to 25 C. over a period of 30 minute stirred for addition 2 hr. Mixture was quenched with methanol concentrated on reduced pressure residue was purified by the column chromatography 3 EtOAc hexane to give the azide intermediate as an oil. IR 2097 cm H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 4.65 d J 8 Hz 1H 4.47 d J 7.5 Hz 1H 3.67 4.58 m 1H 1.80 1.77 m 1H 1.48 s 3H 1.31 s 3H 1.20 s 3H 0.91 0.86 m 9H 0.79 0.77 m 1H cp 0.72 0.0.69 m 2H cp 0.68 0.65 m 1H cp 0.06 0.05 m 6H . A suspension of azido intermediate 0.4 g 2.33 mmol and 10 Pd C 330 mg in absolute EtOH was shaken under 30 psi of Hat room temperature for 2 hr. Celite was added into the solution and the slurry was filtered through a celite pad. The volatile was removed in vacuo and the residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel 2 MeOH DCM to give 14 0.86 g 95 as an oil. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 4.58 dd J 1.5 6.0 Hz 1H 4.29 dd J 1.0 6.0 Hz 3.67 m 2H 2.76 m 1H 1.78 m 1H 1.49 s 3H 1.31 s 3H 0.90 s 9H 0.68 m 1H 0.60 m 1H 0.48 m 2H 0.003 s 6H C 125 MHz CDCl3 0.000 7.31 21.022 23.82 30.22 31.44 32.33 34.06 60.07 69.41 70.23 89.09 93.94 115.65. HR MS Calcd. For CHNOSi 328.2230. found 328.2568.

To a suspension of silver cynate 0.81 g 5.5 mmol in anhydrous benzene 20 mL methoxyacryloyl chloride 0.6 g 5.4 mmol was added. The mixture was heated under reflux for 30 minutes and cooled to room temperature. The supernatant solution was added into the solution of amine 14 0.7 g 2.1 mmol in anhydrous THF 30 mL at 30 C. during 15 minutes. The mixture was allowed to gradually warm up to room temperature and kept overnight. After removing the solvent in vacuo the residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel 30 EtOAc Hexane to give crude 15 0.6 g as a yellow syrup which was directly used for next step. Crude compound 15 0.6 g was dissolved in 1 4 dioxane ethanol 20 mL 20 mL and treated with 28 solution of ammonium hydroxide 20 mL in a steel bomb at 90 100 C. for 17 hr. After removing the solvent in vacuo the residue was purified by column chromatography on a silica gel 2 MeOH DCM to give 16 0.36 g 41 as a pale yellow syrup. 86.03 c 2.01 CHCl H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.81 brs 1H NH 7.64 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 5.56 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 4.68 m 1H 4.47 m 2H 3.54 m 2H 2.08 m 1H 1.50 s 3H 1.25 s 3H 0.80 m 11H 0.72 m 1H 0.26 m 1H 0.003 s 6H C 125 MHz CDCl3 5.43 7.82 16.47 18.39 24.48 25.94 27.58 52.13 62.68 82.28 85.92 101.74 111.72 143.46 150.96 163.02 HR MS Calcd. For CHOSi 328.2070. found 328.2295.

Compound 16 0.2 g 0.47 mmol was dissolved in 20 mL of CFCOOH HO 2 1 v v and heated to 50 C. for 3 hr. The solvent was removed under vacuum and the residue was co evaporated with ethanol 10 mL 3 under vacuum. The residue was purified by column chromatography on a silica gel 7 MeOH CHCl to give 17 100 mg 79 as white foam. mp 114 116 C. 9.84 c 0.26 MeOH UV MeOH 265 nm 11713 pH 2 265 nm 11887 pH 7 264 nm 9153 pH 11 H NMR 500 MHz CDOD d 7.50 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 5.68 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 4.77 4.73 m 2H 4.62 d J 3 Hz 1H 3.71 dd J 4.5 11.0 Hz 1H 3.62 dd J 5 11.0 Hz 1H 2.26 m 1H 0.87 m 2H 0.81 m 1H 0.33 m 1H C NMR 125 MHz CDOD 165.1 152.2 146.3 109.9 74.3 72.4 63.4 51.1 29.8 28.7 10.9 HR MS Calcd. For CHNO H 269.1059. found 269.1261.

N Methylimidazole NMI 5.0 mmol was added to a stirring suspension compound 17 1 mmol in dry THF under argon atmosphere at 78 C. The appropriate substituted chlorophenylphosphoryl L alaninate 3.0 mmol dissolve in THF was added drop wise slowly heated up to room temperature and continue stirred over night at room temperature. Volatiles were evaporated and the residue was dissolved in dichloromethane DCM and washed with 0.5 N HCl. The organic layer dried over NaSOfiltered concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by flash chromatography to give the prodrugs of compound 17 18 19 20 .

To a stirred solution of 12 5.5 g 16.7 mmol in anhydrous DMF 50 mL was added NaH in 60 mineral oil 0.8 g 20.1 mmol at 0 C. under argon. After 30 minutes benzyl bromide 2.36 mL 20.1 mmol was added drop wise at same temperature. The mixture was stirred for 3 hr at room temperature. It was quenched with ice cold water 50 mL and extracted with diethyl ether 2 300 mL . The combined extracts were washed with water 200 mL brine 100 mL and dried over NaSO. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by flash silica gel column chromatography EtOAc Hexane 1 10 to 3 10 to give fully protected carbocyclic intermediate 24 5.6 g 80 as oil. 121.09 c 0.83 CHCl H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.43 m 5H 4.83 d J 12.5 Hz 1H 4.68 d J 12.5 Hz 1H 4.56 t J 5.5 Hz 1H 4.44 d J 6.0 Hz 1H 4.30 m 1H 3.42 dd J 4.0 8.5 Hz 1H 3.21 dd J 5.0 8.5 Hz 1H 2.59 2.57 m 1H 1.46 s 3H 1.34 s 3H 0.84 m 10H 0.43 m 1H 0.32 m 1H 0.24 m 1H 0.06 s 6H C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 150.6 138.6 127.8 110.8 108.9 81.3 79.7 78.5 72.6 71.8 64.5 49.9 32.13 31.54 30.33 29.24 23.83 7.14 0.015 HR MS Calcd. For CHO H 419.2539. found 419.2831.

The fully protected resultant carbocyclic intermediate 23 5.6 g 13.3 mmol was dissolved in 100 mL of CFCOH HO 2 1 v v and heated to 50 C. for 3 h. The solvent was removed under vacuum and the residue was co evaporated with ethanol 3 50 mL . The residue dissolved in methanol 100 mL and passed ammonia gas at 0 C. for 5 minutes for neutralization. After removal of the solvent the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography 3 MeOH DCM to give 5 2.9 g 82 as a white solid. mp 122 124 C. 123.05 c 0.37 MeOH H NMR 500 MHz CDOD 7.46 7.30 m 5H 4.77 d J 12 Hz 1H 4.62 d 12.5 Hz 1H 4.17 4.14 m 2H 3.95 3.93 m 1H 3.82 3.73 m 2H 2.69 2.66 m 1H 0.61 m 1H 0.43 m 1H 0.32 m 1H 0.24 m 1H C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 148.9 138.3 128.0 109.1 80.8 71.7 71.0 70.8 61.8 49.6 29.24 23.83 7.14 HR MS Calcd. For CHO H 265.1362. found 265.1410.

To a stirred mixture of triol 24 2.9 g 10.9 mmol and imidazole 5.2 g 76.8 mmol in DMF 80 mL at 0 C. under argon was added dropwise 1 3 dichloro 1 1 3 3 tetraisopropyldisiloxane 3.5 mL 11.0 mmol . After the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h quenched with MeOH 15 mL and water 100 mL was added and the mixture was extracted with EtOAc 2 200 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 40 mL dried over NaSO. The solvent was removed and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography EtOAc Hexane 1 30 to 1 5 to give 25 5.1 g 92 as an oil. 105.94 c 0.58 CHCl H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.41 7.26 m 5H 4.77 d J 12 Hz 1H 4.62 d J 12 Hz 1H 4.18 4.14 m 3H 4.05 dd J 4.5 12.0 Hz 1H 3.78 dd J 8 12 Hz 1H 2.89 m 1H 2.78 d J 2.0 Hz 1H OH 1.08 0.97 m 28H 0.61 m 1H 0.43 m 1H 0.32 m 1H 0.24 m 1H C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 154.0 147.3 138.1 128.4 80.2 74.2 71.2 71.1 64.9 50.1 29.24 23.83 17.6 17.5 17.4 17.3 17.2 17.1 17.0 16.9 16.8 13.4 12.9 12.7 12.5. 7.20 HR MS Calcd. For CHOSi H 507.2884. found 507.2798.

To a solution of alcohol 25 5.1 g 10.7 mmol in anhydrous CHCl diethylamino sulfur trifluoride DAST 9.3 ml 70.5 mmol was added slowly at room temperature. The reaction mixture was quenched with iced HO after 20 min. The organic layer was collected and the aqueous phase was extracted with dichloromethane. The organic layer was then combined dried over NaSOand the volatiles removed under reduced pressure. The crude residue was purified by flash silica gel column chromatography 1 EtOAc Hexane to give 26 2.5 g 49 . 98.08 c 0.51 CHCl H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.39 7.26 m 5H 4.92 ddd J 6.0 7.5 5.5 Hz 1H 4.78 d J 11.5 Hz 1H 4.65 d J 11.5 Hz 1H 4.31 4.26 m 1H 4.23 4.16 m 1H 4.01 3.92 m 2H 2.70 m 1H 1.08 0.94 m 28H 0.72 m 1H 0.68 0.43 m 2H 0.28 m 1H C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 142.6 d J 9.2 Hz 141.8 137.9 128.4 112.7 103.4 d J 189.0 Hz 80.4 d J 21.3 Hz 73.8 d J 19.8 Hz 71.3 61.6 48.8 d J 5.3 Hz 29.4 24.5 17.5 17.4 17.3 17.2 17.1 17.0 16.9 16.8 13.4 13.3 12.7 12.5 7.9 HR MS Calcd. For CHFOSi H 509.2840. found 509.2923.

A solution of compound 26 1.38 g 2.6 mmol in anhydrous CHClwas treated with boron trichloride 7.1 ml 1M solution in CHCl 8.1 mmol at 78 C. during 15 minute. After stirred at the same temperature for another 15 min additional portion of boron trichloride 5.1 mL of 1M solution in CHCl was added. The reaction was quenched with MeOH at 78 C. after 15 min and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by column chromatography on the silica gel EtOAc Hexane 1 10 to 1 3 to give 27 0.84 g 78 . 53.55 c 0.5 MeOH H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 4.65 dt J 8.0 15.0 Hz 1H 4.49 4.45 m 1H 4.26 4.21 m 1H 3.99 dd J 4.5 12.0 Hz 1H 3.89 dd J 6.0 11.5 Hz 1H 2.66 s 1H 0.93 1.08 m 28H 0.72 m 1H 0.68 0.43 m 2H 0.28 m 1H F NMR 500 MHz CDCl 195.8 m C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 7.8 12.5 12.7 13.3 13.4 16.9 16.98 17.07 17.08 17.4 17.5 27.5 29.8 49.1 63.7 73.7 74.7 102.3 d J 192.7 Hz HR MS Calcd. For CHFOSi H 418.2592. found 418.2592.

To a stirred solution of triphenylphosphine 0.37 g 1.43 mmol in THF 5 mL at 10 C. was added dropwise the DIAD 0.26 mL 1.43 mmol and the reaction mixture was stirred at this temperature for 30 min. After that a solution of benzoyl protected uracil base 0.15 g 0.7 mmol in THF 5 mL was added and stirred for 30 minute at 0 C. Compound 27 0.2 g 0.47 mmol in THF 5 mL was added and the reaction was stirred for 3 hours at room temperature. The volatiles were removed under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by the silica gel column chromatography EtOAc hexane 1 20 to 1 10 to give 28 200 mg 51 as colorless oil. UV MeOH 264 nm pH 7 266.0 nm pH 12 H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.86 d J 12.5 Hz 1H 7.65 7.44 m 5H 5.89 d J 30.5 Hz 1H 5.76 d J 14.5 Hz 1H 4.80 m 1H 4.65 m 1H 3.44 3.22 m 2H 2.39 m 1H 1.11 1.09 m 28H 0.72 m 1H 0.68 0.43 m 2H 0.28 m 1H F NMR 500 MHz CDCl 192.87 m C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 162.2 153.6. 152.2 144.1 133.9 128.6 113.4 93.4 d J 187.5 Hz 83.9 76.0 d J 50.0 Hz 64.3 58.5 29.8 27.8 17.08 17.07 17.05 16.09 16.06 13.05 13.03 8.1 HR MS Cald. For CHFNOSi H 617.2800. found 617.2917.

Compound 28 0.2 g 0.32 mmol was dissolved in saturated MeOH with NH 20 mL and stirred for 8 h at room temperature. The solvent was evaporated under vacuum and the residue was purified by silica gel vacuum column 35 EtOAc hexane to give the debenzolated compound. Debenzoylated compound was dissolved in 10 mL of CFCOOH HO 2 1 v v and heated to 50 C. for 3 h. The solvent was removed under vacuum and the residue was co evaporated with ethanol 3 10 mL under vacuum. The residue was purified by combiflash chromatography 7 MeOH CHCl to give 29 in 60 mg 68 as white foam. 5.4 c 0.67 MeOH H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 11.17 bs 1H 7.68 d J 15.6 1 H 5.80 d J 19.7 1H 5.67 d J 14.5 Hz 1H 4.74 4.78 bs 2H OH 4.70 m 1H 4.10 4.13 bm 1H OH 3.32 3.43 m 2H 2.1 2.08 m 1H 0.69 0.74 m 1H 0.49 0.56 m 2H 0.43 m 1H C NMR 500 MHz MeOH d4 164.9 161.4 152.3 140.2 109.6 76.0 74.0 60.2 51.4 21.1 14.7 11.0 7.3 HR MS Cald. For CHFNO H 270.16. found 270.1226.

To a stirred solution of alcohol 11 4 g 7.9 mmol was added dess martine 4.0 g 9.4 mmol at 0 C. The mixture was warm to ambient temperature and stirred for 1 hr. The mixture was passed through celite bed and obtained filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by column chromatography on a silica gel 2 EtOAc hexane to give ketone 31 3.5 g 89 as an oil. 98.94 c 0.58 CHCl H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.41 7.26 m 5H 4.62 d J 12 Hz 1H 4.42 d J 12 Hz 1H 4.18 4.14 m 2H 4.05 dd J 4.5 12.0 Hz 1H 3.78 dd J 8 12 Hz 1H 1.98 m 1H 1.08 0.97 m 28H 0.61 m 1H 0.43 m 1H 0.32 m 1H 0.24 m 1H C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 162.2 154.0 147.3 138.1 128.4 80.2 74.2 71.2 64.9 50.1 29.24 23.83 17.6 17.5 17.4 17.3 17.2 17.1 17.0 16.9 16.8 13.4 12.9 12.7 12.5. 7.20 HR MS Calcd. For CHOSi H 505.2727. found 505.2798.

A solution of compound 31 3.5 g 6.9 mmol in anhydrous CHClwas treated with boron trichloride 20.5 ml 1M solution in CHCl 21.5 mmol at 78 C. during 15 minute. After stirred at the same temperature for another 15 min additional portion of boron trichloride 6.8 mL of 1M solution in CHCl 7.1 mmol was added. The reaction was quenched with MeOH at 78 C. after 15 min and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by column chromatography on the silica gel EtOAc Hexane 1 10 to 1 3 to give 27 0.84 g 78 . 76.54 c 0.5 MeOH H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 4.49 d J 8.0 1H 4.23 4.12 m 1H 3.99 dd J 4.5 12.0 Hz 1H 3.89 dd J 6.0 11.5 Hz 1H 2.39 m 1H 0.93 1.08 m 28H 0.72 m 1H 0.68 0.43 m 2H 0.28 m 1H F NMR 500 MHz CDCl 195.8 m C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 7.8 12.5 12.7 13.3 13.4 16.9 16.98 17.07 17.08 17.4 17.5 27.5 29.8 49.1 63.7 74.7 84.2 164.2 HR MS Calcd. For CHOSi H 414.2258. found 414.2362.

The spiro 2.4 heptanes described herein exhibit significant anti Flaviviridae for example anti HCV activity. Compounds according to the present invention can be assayed for anti Flaviviridae activity especially anti HCV activity using well known and conventional assays found in the literature.

For example anti HCV activity and cytotoxicity of the compounds may be measured in the HCV subgenomic RNA replicon assay system in Huh7 ET cells. See Korba et al. 2008 77 56 . The results may be summarized in comparison to a positive control 2 C Me cytosine 2 C Me C Pierra et al. 2006 49 6614.

Another in vitro assay for anti hepatitis C activity is described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 718 790 by Stuyver et al. and assigned to Pharmasset Inc.

There are numerous literature assays for Dengue fever West Nile encephalitis Tick borne encephalitis and Yellow fever including Stahla et al. Identification of a Novel Antiviral Inhibitor of the Flavivirus Guanylyltransferase Enzyme Journal of Virology August 2012 Vol 86 16 pp 8730 8379.

This specification has been described with reference to embodiments of the invention. Given the teaching herein one of ordinary skill in the art will be able to modify the invention for a desired purpose and such variations are considered within the scope of the invention.

