---

title: Suspended payload stability device
abstract: A stability device for a payload suspended from a payload sling includes a first wind deflecting member having a leading edge portion and a trailing edge portion; a second wind deflecting member having a leading edge portion and a trailing edge portion; the first wind deflecting member and the second wind deflecting member forming a substantially V-shaped structure; a tip portion of the V-shaped structure comprising the leading edge portion of the first wind deflecting member and the leading edge portion of the second wind deflecting member; an open portion of the V-shaped structured comprising the trailing edge of the first wind deflecting member and the trailing edge of the second wind deflecting member; and a securing mechanism removably coupling the payload stability device to the payload.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09181067&OS=09181067&RS=09181067
owner: The United States of America, as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09181067
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140617
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the U.S. Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The aspects of the present disclosure relate generally to the field of suspended payload stabilization systems and in particular to a portable payload stabilization device.

Maintaining the stability of a payload being transported suspended from an aircraft during flight provides a number of challenges. Some approaches to the challenges associated with suspended payload stabilization include rear attached fins kite tails and dynamic stabilization. However these systems tend to be large and bulky. In some cases these systems become a permanent fixture to the payloads which can reduce the performance of the item when in use.

In helicopter lifting applications helicopters are used to lift equipment and transport the equipment to locations not easily accessible by crane or land vehicles. As the helicopter moves to that location the payload must be stable so as to not endanger the aircrew ground crew bystanders or the equipment. A stable payload equates to a safer work environment shorter transportation time and longer aircraft range. A more stable payload reduces operational costs and increases the distances a payload may be transported without refueling.

Fins that are used in payload stabilization are traditionally made from various types of rigid materials and are located on the rear of the payload. When on the rear of the payload the fin tends to be behind the point of rotation of the payload. This keeps the payload oriented in parallel with the airflow and increases the stability. However to increase effectiveness the fin is required to be secured permanently to the payload. When the fin is designed as a permanent structure to the payload the fin or stability equipment cannot be moved from one payload to another and restricts flexibility. A permanent fin system can also prevent the load from conducting its primary purpose.

The fins must also be placed on the payload in such a manner that the fins interact with the free stream airflow. In some instances of this type of configuration the payload may block some of the air and create turbulence reducing the effectiveness of the fin system.

Kite tails or streamers can be secured to the rear of the payload to stabilize the payload or equipment. However the disadvantages of this approach include the kite tail or streamer becoming entangled with the aircraft equipment which can include for example the rotor blades of a helicopter. To prevent the streamer from contacting the rotor blades the streamer is typically constructed of a heavy chain and a large heavy item is secured to the end. This increases the weight of the system and decreases the performance characteristics of the aircraft.

Dynamic stabilization requires complex and bulky electronics with high powered computing systems to monitor the payload movement and provide a stabilizing force to counteract the moving force. These dynamic systems tend to be power intensive and require a significant amount of calibration for the complex instrumentation. The cost to use and maintain this type of system can be extensive depending upon the size of the payload and the expected restoring forces required to be generated.

Accordingly it would be desirable to provide a suspended payload stability device that addresses at least some of the problems identified above.

As described herein the exemplary embodiments overcome one or more of the above or other disadvantages known in the art.

One aspect of the exemplary embodiments relates to a stability device for a payload suspended from a payload sling. In one embodiment the stability device includes a first wind deflecting member having a leading edge portion and a trailing edge portion a second wind deflecting member having a leading edge portion and a trailing edge portion the first wind deflecting member and the second wind deflecting member forming a substantially V shaped structure a tip portion of the V shaped structure comprising the leading edge portion of the first wind deflecting member and the leading edge portion of the second wind deflecting member an open portion of the V shaped structured comprising the trailing edge of the first wind deflecting member and the trailing edge of the second wind deflecting member and a securing mechanism coupling so that it is removable the payload stability device to the payload.

Another aspect of the disclosed embodiments is directed to a suspended payload system for transporting a payload. In one embodiment the suspended payload system includes a set of lifting legs for attachment to the payload wherein one lifting leg is attached in a respective corner area of the payload. A first pair of spaced apart support members are removably coupled at one end to a first lifting leg in a first corner area of the payload and at an other end to a second lifting leg in an opposing second corner area of the payload. A second pair of spaced apart support members are removably coupled at one end to a third lifting leg in a third corner area of the payload and at an other end to a fourth lifting leg in an opposing fourth corner area of the payload. A substantially V shaped wind deflector member includes a first panel having a leading edge and a trailing edge a second panel having a leading edge and a trailing edge a leading portion of the wind deflector member formed by the leading edge of the first panel and the leading edge of the second panel a trailing portion of the wind deflector member formed by the trailing edge of the first panel and the second panel and wherein the leading portion of the wind deflector member is disposed near a point of rotation of the payload and in a direction of travel of the payload.

These and other aspects and advantages of the exemplary embodiments will become apparent from the following detailed description considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. It is to be understood however that the drawings are designed solely for purposes of illustration and not as a definition of the limits of the invention for which reference should be made to the appended claims. Additional aspects and advantages of the invention will be set forth in the description that follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the invention. Moreover the aspects and advantages of the invention may be realized and obtained by means of the instrumentalities and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

Referring to one embodiment of a payload system incorporating aspects of the disclosed embodiments is illustrated. The aspects of the disclosed embodiments are directed to a payload stability device that can be used to increase the stability of a payload that is suspended in a medium such as air or water.

As shown in the system includes a payload and the payload stability device . In the embodiment shown in the payload stability device is attached on a top portion or surface of the payload . In accordance with the aspects of the disclosed embodiments the payload stability device is generally configured to be positioned on the payload so that a majority of the projected side area of the payload stability device is behind a center or point of rotation POR of the payload . The point of rotation also referred to as the center of mass or center of gravity is generally a region where the lifting legs confluence point of the payload lifting device is projected upon the payload as will be further described herein.

The aspects of the disclosed embodiments advantageously provide for the payload stability device to be removably or temporarily coupled to the payload . The payload stability device of the present disclosure does not rely on permanent attachments to the payload and is configured to be easily attached to and removed from the payload . The aspects of the disclosed embodiments allow for the payload stability device to be secured to the payload without special consideration for the securing system or the particular payload. This means that the payload stability device can be secured to the payload during lifting and transport operations and then removed and made available for reuse on or with the same or another payload without the need for substantial modification or repair. Although the payload is generally shown in the form of a box or container the aspects of the disclosed embodiments are not so limited and the payload can comprise any suitable payload as will generally be understood. For example the payload can comprise a vehicle or machinery.

As is illustrated in the example of the payload stability device of the disclosed embodiments is disposed on the top surface or portion of the payload to allow the payload stability device to interact with the free stream air flow and to be able to readily attach to the payload or other supporting mechanism as will be described herein. Although the aspects of the disclosed embodiments will generally be described herein with respect to the top portion of the payload the position of the payload stability device on the payload can be on any side or surface of the payload that is substantially parallel to the airflow to affect the pitch yaw roll and overall swinging stability of the payload .

In the example of the payload stability device is in the form of a substantially V shaped structure generally referred to herein as a fin. The V shaped fin structure generally comprises a leading edge or tip portion and a pair of side panels indicated as panels or members . The panels generally form the wind deflecting member or members of the payload stability device . Alternatively the side panels can also be referred to as a fin or fins. 

Member has a leading edge portion and a trailing edge portion . Member has a leading edge portion and a trailing edge portion . In one embodiment the leading edge portions of the members respectively are positioned to form the tip portion of the payload stability device also referred to as the leading edge . The orientation of the members relative to one another as is shown in provides the generally V shaped structure of the payload stability device . In the example of the payload stability device is oriented so that the tip portion of the payload stability device in this example the tip of the V shape structure is pointed into the oncoming airflow stream the direction of which is generally indicated by the arrow A.

In the example of the leading edge portion and leading edge portion come together to form the tip portion . Alternatively in one embodiment a gap or separation can be formed between the leading edge portions . Referring to in one embodiment the leading edge portion and leading edge portion are spaced apart to form gap between the leading edge portion and leading edge portion . Providing a gap between the leading edge portions and at the leading edge or tip portion can help control flow. In one embodiment a size of the gap is approximately 3 6 inches.

The payload stability device is positioned on the payload to direct the airflow in such a way to increase the stability of the payload in high wind conditions. Typically the trailing edges of the members used for stabilization are located at the furthest distance aft or rear of the front wall from the point of rotation of the payload . In the example of the rear tip of the payload stability device is aligned substantially vertically to the rear wall of the payload .

In the example shown in an upper or top surface portion of the member is substantially horizontal while the trailing edge portion is angled. A similar configuration exists with respect to the upper or top surface portion and trailing edge portion of member . As shown in an angle is shown defined between the trailing edge portion and the base portion with respect to member . Member is similarly configured. In one embodiment the angle shown in the example of is approximately 60 degrees. In alternate embodiments the angle can be any suitable angle in the range of 0 to 90 degrees. The angle should be sufficient to prevent the payload stability device from interfering with the lifting legs of the payload such as the payload legs shown in which will be described further herein. In one embodiment the angle generally corresponds to the angle of the corresponding payload lifting leg relative to the payload .

The payload stability device will have a height shown in the example of as H. The height H can be varied depending upon the particular application and will generally be between 0 1 times the approximate height of the payload . In the example of the height H is approximately one half the height of the payload .

The payload stability device will also have a length which is generally defined as the length L of each of the members . In the example of only the length L of member is shown. The length of member will generally correspond to the length of member . In one embodiment the length L of the member is sufficient to extend from the corner region of the payload to an area corresponding to the point of rotation on the top portion of the payload . While the size of the payload stability device is not fixed in terms of height and length the projected geometric center of the payload stability device which is substantially perpendicular to the flow A should be behind the point of rotation .

As shown in the example of a top portion of the payload stability device will generally have a length L that is shorter than a length L of a bottom portion . The length L is chosen so as to avoid any interference between the payload stability device and the lifting legs of the payload such as the payload legs shown in . In one embodiment the length of L is based on or determines the angle and the height H discussed above. The length L of the trailing edge members is based on or determined by the lengths L and L and the height H.

The members of the payload stability device will have a thickness that is generally defined by T. In one embodiment the thickness T of the panels of the payload stability device will generally be dependent upon the type of material used for the payload stability device and the desired rigidity and flexibility. In one embodiment the thickness T is in the range of for example approximately 0.125 inches up to and including two inches. In alternate embodiments the payload stability device can have any thickness that will achieve the desired rigidity or flexibility of the payload stability device .

In one embodiment the payload stability device of is constructed from a lightweight material. The material can be rigid semi rigid as well as flexible depending upon the particular application. Typical considerations for the material of the payload stability device are the size of the payload and the typical airspeed and airflow the payload will be subjected to. For example at low air speeds a textile type material might be used. At higher air speeds more rigidity is needed so a more rigid plastic or metal material can be considered. In one embodiment the material forming the payload stability device is a polymer which provides a minimal relative flexibility. In alternate embodiments the material of the payload stability device can comprise one or more of woven fabrics non woven fabrics thin films ropes and cords. In one embodiment the payload stability device can comprise a combination of fabric and plastic. In alternate embodiments the material comprising the payload flexibility device can comprise any material or combination thereof that provides the desired rigidity or flexibility.

The payload stability device of the present disclosure is also configured to be stored with or as part of the corresponding payload. For example in a sling load environment such as shown in storing the payload stability device with the payload can be a requirement. The flexible nature of the payload stability device allows it to be stored with the payload and redeployed when needed. For example in one embodiment the payload stability device can be folded into a smaller package that allows it to be stored.

Slings or sling sets are commonly used to lift and move payloads. illustrates one embodiment of a payload stability device incorporating aspects of the present disclosure. In this example the payload stability device is disposed on the top of payload . The payload of this embodiment includes or is configured to be coupled to a sling or sling set . The sling set has lifting legs and in each of the corner regions. As generally discussed above in one embodiment the point of rotation is determined by projecting the confluence point where the lifting legs and join together referred to as the lifting legs confluence point downwards upon the payload . In one embodiment the payload stability device shown in is configured to be attached to the sling set . As illustrated in the embodiment of the payload stability device is attached to the sling set by supporting structures also referred to as connecting cordage. The supporting structures and are generally configured as pairs between the respective lifting legs and of the sling set generally in an X type of formation. The supporting structures and of the payload stability device can be attached to the sling set using any suitable attachment mechanism such as by tying or clamping and looping material. The supporting structures and will also be attached or mechanically fastened to the members or structures in a suitable manner such as by clamping or sewing for example.

Since the payload stability device attaches to the sling set and not the payload the payload stability device of the disclosed embodiments can be used in conjunction with any payload that utilizes or has a sling set attached thereto. This allows for the payload stability device to be moved from one payload system to another or different payload system with minimal effort. The payload stability device will also function with payloads having complex geometries.

In the example of the fin or rear V shaped structure or section is constructed with a low permeability material meaning that one or both of the members comprises a low permeability material. The forward inverted V shape area or section is left empty as shown in the example of meaning that there are no structures similar to members and in section . In the absence of any such structures in section any air or wind can pass through easily.

Alternatively the section can comprise a high permeability material. For example structures similar to members and can be disposed between the respective pairs of support members and . In this embodiment the payload stability device must be suitably sized and positioned on the payload so that a majority of the V shaped structures and are behind the point of rotation of the payload .

In one embodiment the payload stability device of is configured to be folded up when not being used. illustrates one embodiment of a wind deflecting surface or member for the payload stability device of incorporating aspects of the present disclosure. In this example the wind deflecting member generally corresponding to the panels or wind deflecting surfaces and of is configured to be folded into a small generally lightweight package. In the example of the wind deflecting member comprises a series of smaller sections or members and . The sections and are generally rigid or semi rigid members. In between the sections and are flexible sections or members and . The flexible sections and separate the sections and as is shown in . The flexible sections are attached to the sections and in any suitable manner such as by sewing stapling or stitching for example. This allows the wind deflecting member to be folded up after use. Although four sections and are shown in the example of it should be understood that the wind deflecting member for the payload stability device can include more or less than four sections or panels. For example in one embodiment the wind deflecting member can comprise between two and five sections.

One embodiment of the payload stability device illustrated in was tested in a small scale wind tunnel. In this test the payload stability device comprises a rigid V shaped fin structure. The payload in this example was hung from a force transducer that measures forces in three directions. illustrates the results of the baseline tests of the small scale rectangular payload hanging from the ceiling of the wind tunnel without the V shaped fin structure. In this test the airspeed was approximately 10 meters second and the X direction is parallel to the airflow of the wind tunnel. The Y direction is perpendicular to the airflow but parallel to the ceiling of the wind tunnel. The Z direction is perpendicular to the ceiling of the wind tunnel. Graph illustrates the resultant forces in the X direction graph the Y direction and graph the Z direction.

The payload stability device of the present disclosure is configured to be used commercially with any and all equipment used for commercial lifting. The primary application will be with crane and helicopter lifting applications where lifted payload orientation is important or the potential for lifting sling wind up is high.

Other potential applications for the payload stability device of the disclosed embodiments can include seaports construction sites and other locations where equipment needs to be lifting primarily utilizing cranes and helicopters. Military applications can allow helicopter sling load to be a more effective means of transportation.

The aspects of the disclosed embodiments provide a payload stability device that increases the stability of the payload. The payload stability device of the present disclosure is generally configured to be disposed on a payload in a manner that allows the payload stability device to be easily removed and used with another payload. The payload stability device of the disclosed embodiments can be secured to the lift assembly for payload such as a sling which increase the portability of the payload stability device from one payload to another payload. The payload stability device of the disclosed embodiments can also be flexible in nature to allow the payload stability device to be folded and stored with the payload.

Thus while there have been shown described and pointed out fundamental novel features of the invention as applied to the exemplary embodiments thereof it will be understood that various omissions and substitutions and changes in the form and details of devices and methods illustrated and in their operation may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit of the invention. Moreover it is expressly intended that all combinations of those elements and or method steps which perform substantially the same function in substantially the same way to achieve the same results are within the scope of the invention. Moreover it should be recognized that structures and or elements and or method steps shown and or described in connection with any disclosed form or embodiment of the invention may be incorporated in any other disclosed or described or suggested form or embodiment as a general matter of design choice. It is the intention therefore to be limited only as indicated by the scope of the claims appended hereto.

