---

title: Non-volatile, piezoelectronic memory based on piezoresistive strain produced by piezoelectric remanence
abstract: A nonvolatile memory storage device includes a ferroelectric (FE) material coupled with a piezoresistive (PR) material through an inherent piezoelectric response of the FE material, wherein an electrical resistance of the PR material is dependent on a compressive stress applied thereto, the compressive stress caused by a remanent strain of the FE material resulting from a polarization of the FE material, such that a polarized state of the FE material results in a first resistance value of the PR material, and a depolarized state of the FE material results in a second resistance value of the PR material.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09251884&OS=09251884&RS=09251884
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09251884
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140324
---
This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. N66001 11 C 4109 awarded by Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA . The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates generally to integrated circuit devices and more particularly to a non volatile piezoelectronic memory based on piezoresistive strain produced by piezoelectric remanence.

Complementary Field Effect Transistors FETs support the standard computer architecture CMOS currently used in logic and memory. FETs exploit high channel mobility to control few carrier currents electrostatically. However limitations in this highly successful technology are appearing at current and future device scales. In particular the inability to operate with power supplies significantly below 1 volt V limits device speed because faster clock speeds imply unacceptably high power consumption. Thus it would be highly desirable to develop new switches and memories enabling computer architectures operable at low voltages powers and high speeds.

In an exemplary embodiment a nonvolatile memory storage device includes a ferroelectric FE material coupled with a piezoresistive PR material through an inherent piezoelectric response of the FE material wherein an electrical resistance of the PR material is dependent on a compressive stress applied thereto the compressive stress caused by a remanent strain of the FE material resulting from a polarization of the FE material such that a polarized state of the FE material results in a first resistance value of the PR material and a depolarized state of the FE material results in a second resistance value of the PR material.

In another embodiment a nonvolatile memory cell includes a storage transistor coupled to an access transistor the storage transistor comprising a first ferroelectric FE material coupled with a first piezoresistive PR material through an inherent piezoelectric response of the first FE material wherein an electrical resistance of the first PR material is dependent on a compressive stress applied thereto the compressive stress caused by a remanent strain of the first FE material resulting from a polarization of the first FE material such that a polarized state of the first FE material results in a first resistance value of the first PR material and a depolarized state of the FE material results in a second resistance value of the first PR material that is higher than the first resistance value wherein the first FE material is disposed between first and second electrodes and the first PR material is disposed between the second electrode and a third electrode wherein the first FE material is polarized by initial application of a voltage across the first FE material to result in an initial polarization D and thereafter by removal of the voltage to leave the first FE element with a remanent polarization Dand a remanent strain S and wherein the first FE material is depolarized and the remanent strain removed by applying an alternating voltage of decreasing amplitude across the first FE material.

In another embodiment a multibit nonvolatile memory storage device includes a first ferroelectric FE material and a second FE material coupled with a piezoresistive PR material through an inherent piezoelectric response of the first FE material and second FE material and arranged in a single stack wherein an electrical resistance of the PR material is dependent upon on a compressive stress applied thereto the compressive stress caused by a remanent strain of the first FE material and the second FE material resulting from a polarization of the first FE material and a polarization of the second FE material such that the PR material is set to assume one of a first resistance value a second resistance value a third resistance value of the PR material and a fourth resistance value.

Disclosed herein are embodiments of a non volatile ferroelectric memory having a piezoresistive read capability FePZRAM which makes the device compatible with piezoelectronic low voltage switching technology. Referring initially to there is shown a perspective view of an exemplary memory storage device in accordance with an exemplary embodiment. The memory storage device includes a ferroelectric FE element such as PZT Pb ZrTi O coupled with a piezoresistive PR element such as SmSe. FE materials are a subset of piezoelectric PE materials which after being driven to a saturation voltage by an external source retain a remanent polarization after removal of the external voltage source. Thereby a remnant strain state with respect to the unpolarized state is also achieved within the FE material.

The FE element is disposed between a gate contact electrode and a common contact and the PR element is disposed between the common contact and a sense contact . A high yield strength medium serves as a mechanical clamp around the memory structure. As further illustrated in the FE element has a cross sectional area A along the x y axes and a thickness L along the z axis. The PR element has a cross sectional area a along the x y axes and a thickness l along the z axis.

The ferroelectric element is operated in two states. First in a Bit state the FE element is polarized in a direction parallel to the z axis and thus is elongated along the same axis. In a Bit state the FE element is unpolarized and thus not elongated. The FE is polarized as shown in the graph of by applying a suitable voltage across the gate common pair of contacts to initially bring the polarization to D and thereafter then turning the applied voltage off to leave the FE element with both a remanent polarization Dand a remnant strain S. As shown in the graph of the FE element may be depolarized by applying an alternating voltage of steadily decreasing amplitude.

In an alternative embodiment the FE element may be placed in an imprinted state as shown in the graph of with two positive remanent polarizations Dand D. To go from polarization Dto D an electric field is applied to bring the polarization to Dand then the electric field is reduced to zero leaving the polarization at D. To go from polarization Dto D a negative electric field is applied to bring the polarization to Dand then the field is increased to zero leaving the polarization at D. It should be noted that the embodiments described below are specific to the non imprinted case in which polarization is illustrated as in and depolarization is illustrated as in .

An exemplary switching time for the FE element may be on the order of 10 s of picoseconds ps for a thin FE film and voltages on the order of several tens of millivolts mV . Switching occurs by the motion of a domain wall at the speed v 2.4 10E m s for an electric field E in V m. For V 0.05 V and thickness L 30 nm this speed is 400 m s and the propagation time is 75 ps.

When polarized the expansive strain acting on the FE element is used to compress the PR element which is in contact with the FE element and constrained by the surrounding rigid clamp to cause compression rather than expansion of the whole structure. The compression of the PR element due to the Bit polarization of the FE element is used to provide a piezoresistive read signal through the sense and common contacts .

Referring now to there is shown a graph that illustrates the resistive response to pressure in a proposed PR medium SmSe which undergoes a large change in resistivity under an applied GPa magnitude pressure. Other materials which may be suitable in this regard include for example SmS SmTe TmTe CaRuO Ni SSe and VOdoped with 4 Cr.

An approximate expression for the stress in the PR due to the polarization induced strain in the FE is 

Here Tis the stress in the PR S p is the remanent strain in the FE due to polarization p the dimensions and areas l L a and A are as described in Yand Yare the Young s moduli of the PR element and FE element respectively. As an example if it is assumed that the thickness ratio l L is 1 10 and the area ratio a A is 1 16 and Young s moduli are Y 100 GPa Y 20 GPa then using the example with S p 0.003 0.727 GPa.

Referring to the exemplary PR response in it is seen that a pressure of 0.7 GPa will produce a change in resistivity of approximately logr 1.7 orders of magnitude which is more than sufficient to present a clear read signal.

Referring now to there is shown a schematic diagram of an individual two transistor memory cell that may be used in a cross point memory matrix to read and write a bit using the storage element design of . The memory cell includes a pair of piezoelectronic transistors PETs Tand T. Both PETs are surrounded either individually or together by a High Young s modulus Material HYM not specifically shown in . Transistor Tserves as the storage element and corresponds to the device illustrated in while transistor Tserves as an access transistor for T and in an exemplary embodiment is implemented as a four terminal PET.

In brief the 4 terminal PET Tincludes a piezoelectric PE crystal material in lieu of the FE material of the storage transistor T. In addition instead of being disposed between a gate electrode and a common electrode the PE material of Tis disposed between a pair of gate electrodes. A low permittivity insulator layer not shown separates the one gate electrode from a first sense electrode. Effectively the common electrode of the 3 terminal configuration is split into a second gate electrode and second sense electrode for a 4 terminal configuration. Additional details concerning 4 terminal PET devices may be found in U.S. application Ser. No. 13 719 965 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The memory element is coupled to a pair of control lines b bit line and w word line . The gate electrode g and the sense electrode s of the ferroelectric PET FPET storage transistor Tare coupled to ground. The common electrode c of the FPET storage transistor Tis coupled to a first sense electrode s of the 4PET access transistor T while a second sense electrode s of the 4PET access transistor Tis coupled to the bit line . A first gate electrode g of the 4PET access transistor Tis coupled to the word line and a second gate electrode g of the 4PET access transistor Tis coupled to ground. A switch may be included in the peripheral logic to couple to separate read sense and write voltages V V for the bit line b. The switch may also be implemented using a PET device in lieu of an FET device. Internally the gate electrode g of FPET Tis connected to one side of the FE capacitor with the other side of the capacitor representing the common electrode c . The resistor symbol of FPET Trepresents the PR material connected between the common and sense contacts.

In a write mode of operation the switch uncouples the bit line from the small sense voltage source Vand couples the bit line to a write voltage source V. To write a 1 to the storage transistor T the voltage on the word line is raised to H to turn TON. A constant write voltage H is also applied to the bit line to polarize the FE material of the storage transistor T and is thereafter turned off. To write a 0 to the storage transistor T the applied write voltage on the bit line is an oscillatory voltage symbolized by in with a gradually decreasing amplitude. It is not necessary that the FE be completely depolarized to represent bit so long as the low polarization state results in a PR resistance of the storage transistor Tbeing distinguishable from the high polarization state which again is facilitated by the exponential dependence of PR resistance on pressure .

Leakage current through the piezoelectric which is nominally a capacitor should be minimized to avoid excessive energy dissipation. The leakage current through a PMN PT piezoelectric with an electric field of 4 10V m equals 10A cm. This value is also expected for a design where the applied voltage is about 0.1 V and the PE thickness is about 25 nm. With a leakage current of 10A cmfor each PET a memory with 10PETs each with an area of 30 nm has a total leakage current of 10A or a total leakage power of 10Watts. This is negligible compared to the other power dissipated.

Referring now to there is shown a schematic diagram of a cross point FePZRAM matrix in accordance with another embodiment. This embodiment utilizes just a single FE PR stack per memory element and surrounded by a HYM not shown which allows for approximately 4 times the density on a chip with respect to the memory element illustrated in . Each memory element in includes a bottom ferroelectric layer Feb with opposing electrical contacts on each side in mechanical but insulated contact with a top ferroelectric layer FEt that also has two separate electrical contacts on opposing sides thereof. In addition a top PR layer is in mechanical contact with the top ferroelectric layer FEt wherein the top PR layer also has electrical contacts on opposing sides thereof one of which may be shared with the adjacent electrical contact of FEt. There are two word lines wt n and wb n for n equal to rows 1 2 3 etc. providing electrical contact to each row in the matrix as well as one bit line b m for m equal to columns 1 2 3 etc. providing electrical contact to each column. Each word line wb n connects to the top electrical contact on FEb the other contact of which is grounded and each word line wt n connects to the bottom electrical contact of FEt and to the top electrical contact of the PR. Each bit line b m contacts the conducting layer between the associated FEt and PR.

Each memory element shown in utilizes a type of PR that has a slowly declining resistance with increasing pressure at low pressure and then a steeply declining resistance with increasing pressure at high pressure as shown in the pressure resistance curve of . Specifically is a pressure resistance curve for the material CaRuO. As is illustrated a half compression of the PR reduces its resistance by only a small amount while a full compression reduces it by a large amount.

Referring again to operation of the memory elements may be understood as follows. Each bottom FEb is controlled by the associated bottom word line wb n and is placed in a non polarized state for all write operations and for all read operations in any other row but its own. However bottom word line wb n places FEb in a polarized state when the nrow is being read. This operation of polarizing and unpolarizing FEb takes the place of the row enabling switch T in the memory element of . The top word lines wt n in conjunction with the bit lines b m control the value of the bit in the m n memory unit by setting FTt m n to a polarized or unpolarized state. This write operation can be done simultaneously for all memory elements in the row.

The read operation is implemented by first setting all of the bottom ferroelectrics in a row FEb to a polarized state thereby compressing the PR halfway. Each FEb in the non read rows remains unpolarized. A small voltage E is then applied to the top word line wt n for row n and the bit lines are set to zero voltage with a current sensor. Current runs through each PR in the row to be read and then to the sensors in the bit lines but significant current does not run through the other rows because their resistances are high. A top ferroelectric FEt that is polarized compresses the PR the other half of the way dropping its resistance significantly so that a large current is read by that bit line sensor. A top ferroelectric FEt that is unpolarized does not compress the PR any more than the bottom FEb already compresses it and therefore the PR resistance remains high. The current through that PR is therefore low in the bit line sensor. In this way the states of polarization in all of the FEts in a row can be simultaneously determined by the sensors. This read operation is non destructive because FEt is unchanged by the small applied voltage .

The standby state for all of the word lines and bit lines is zero voltage. The top ferroelectric FEt keeps its polarization state with zero voltage and thus the memory is non volatile. It should also be noted that the bottom FEb in each element could be replaced by a piezoelectric that requires a continuously applied voltage during the read row step to compress the PR.

Referring now to there is shown a schematic cross sectional view of a multibit memory storage element in accordance with a further embodiment. In this embodiment the element is capable of storing two bits. The memory storage element includes two FE layers FE and FE wherein FE has a thickness of about twice that of FE. Both FE and FE are controlled by a pair of gate contacts and are insulated from one another. The electric field and thus polarization and strain in each FE element is selected to be the same wherein twice the magnitude of voltage is applied across FE to reach saturation polarization with respect to FE. The states of the system are depicted in the table below 

In Table 1 l is the intrinsic length expansion of the FE FE stack under different polarization combinations with lbeing the expansion for FE. Given the exponential behavior of resistivity vs. stress strain in the PR characteristic graph of these values may easily be made distinguishable in terms of read current. The 4 different states can therefore be read which defines a 2 bit memory element. Expanding this concept further three stacked FEs with thicknesses of L 2L and 4L could store 8 states thereby providing a Byte of data in a single device footprint. It should be readily apparent to those skilled in the art that other combinations of FE thicknesses and remnant polarizations as well as other contact dispositions are also possible to attain different numbers of states.

An exemplary cross point array for the multibit memory element of is shown in . For ease of illustration the surrounding HYM is omitted for the elements . The array of is written in a similar manner to that of except that there are now additional word and bit lines to control the additional FEs in each memory element . A read operation for the array of senses a small current from bit line b to bit line b when the bottom word line in the row wb is activated by a voltage. Other wiring arrangements are possible however. As is the case with the embodiment the bottom FE layer in each element may be replaced by a piezoelectric layer.

Referring now to there is shown a schematic perspective view of another multibit memory storage element in accordance with a further embodiment. Similar to the embodiment of the storage element includes a pair of FE layers and . A PR element is also in mechanical contact with the FE stack however unlike the embodiment in which the FE layers are each controlled by a separate pair of electrodes and separated from one another by an insulator layer FE layers and are in contact with one another and both controlled by a single pair of electrodes similar to the embodiment . The PR element is disposed between electrodes and . Exemplary dimensions for the storage element in may be X 45 90 nm Y 45 90 nm Z 35 90 nm and T 6 12 nm.

In order to produce four different logic states in a nonvolatile manner the piezo materials for FE layers and are selected to be different from one another. In addition and as illustrated collectively by B and the dimensions and materials of the multibit memory storage element are tailored such that for a first logic state level 1 both FE layers and are depolarized resulting in a high resistivity cell. For a second logic state level 2 the applied electric field is Esuch that the remanent polarization is set to Dand results in a displacement such that P

While the invention has been described with reference to an exemplary embodiment or embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed as the best mode contemplated for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

