---

title: Method of connecting networks using Wi-Fi Direct in image forming apparatus, image forming apparatus supporting Wi-Fi Direct, and image forming system
abstract: A method of connecting an image forming apparatus to a network via Wi-Fi Direct, including: executing a Wi-Fi Direct function of the image forming apparatus so that the image forming apparatus operates as a soft access point (AP); displaying, when the image forming apparatus is connected to an external wireless device via the Wi-Fi Direct function, an embedded web page provided by the image forming apparatus on the connected wireless device; receiving access information of an infra network, to which the image forming apparatus is to be wirelessly connected, from the wireless device, wherein the access information is input via the displayed embedded web page; and establishing a wireless network connection between the image forming apparatus and the infrastructure network based on the access information received from the wireless device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09351097&OS=09351097&RS=09351097
owner: SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO., LTD.
number: 09351097
owner_city: Suwon-Si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20140321
---
This application claims the priority benefit of Korean Patent Application No. 10 2013 0030993 filed on Mar. 22 2013 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and Korean Patent Application No. 10 2013 0097351 filed on Aug. 16 2013 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office the disclosures of which are incorporated herein in their entirety by reference.

Embodiments relate to a method of connecting an image forming apparatus to a network via Wi Fi Direct an image forming apparatus supporting Wi Fi Direct and an image forming system.

Recently as wireless LAN WLAN technology is mounted in wireless devices infrastructure technology of WLAN IEEE 802.11 whereby wireless devices connect to infrastructure networks such as hot spots or access points AP to use the Internet has become generalized and widely used.

In addition Wi Fi which is a wireless local area network LAN standard based on IEEE 802.11 regulated by Wi Fi Alliance is basically a technology that allows using ultra high speed internet by accessing an access point AP connected to a network infrastructure however Wi Fi may serve peer to peer P2P communication by using an ad hoc mode. When using this ad hoc mode however security is weakened a transmission speed decreases and an establishing method thereof is difficult to perform. Accordingly Wi Fi Alliance has suggested Wi Fi Direct as a technique that makes P2P communication possible. Wi Fi Direct allows P2P connection between wireless devices without using an AP supports a transmission speed of a maximum of 250 Mbps and performs security settings by using Wi Fi protected access 2 WPA2 in order to address problems of the ad hoc function. In addition Wi Fi Direct supports a transmission range of a 200 m maximum and thus is considered as a substitute for P2P communication.

As described above with the appearance of Wi Fi Direct use of P2P communication has increased more. In addition P2P communication technology may also be applied to image forming apparatuses such as printers scanners fax machines and multi function printers. Accordingly a technique for securely and easily connecting an image forming apparatus which supports P2P connection to a network is necessary.

In an aspect of one or more embodiments there is provided a method of connecting an image forming apparatus to a network via Wi Fi Direct an image forming apparatus supporting Wi Fi Direct and an image forming system. However the technical objective of embodiments is not limited to the above and other technical objectives may also be solved by embodiments.

According to an aspect of one or more embodiments there is provided a method of connecting an image forming apparatus to a network via Wi Fi Direct the method including executing a Wi Fi Direct function of the image forming apparatus so that the image forming apparatus operates as a software access point soft AP displaying when the image forming apparatus is connected to an external wireless device via the Wi Fi Direct function an embedded web page provided by the image forming apparatus on the connected wireless device receiving access information of an infrastructure network to which the image forming apparatus is to be wirelessly connected from the wireless device wherein the access information is input via the displayed embedded web page and establishing a wireless network connection between the image forming apparatus and the infrastructure network based on the access information received from the wireless device.

According to an aspect of one or more embodiments there is provided an image forming apparatus supporting Wi Fi Direct including a wireless local area network WLAN interface unit executing a Wi Fi Direct function so that the image forming apparatus operates as a software access point soft AP and a central processing unit CPU generating when the image forming apparatus is connected to an externals wireless device via the Wi Fi Direct function an embedded web page including a list of infra networks to which the image forming apparatus may be wirelessly connected wherein the wireless communication interface unit provides the generated embedded web page to the connected wireless device receives access information of the infrastructure network input via the provided embedded web page and establishes a wireless network connection between the image forming apparatus and the infrastructure network based on the received access information.

According to an aspect of one or more embodiments there is provided an image forming system including an image forming apparatus that executes a Wi Fi Direct function so that the image forming apparatus operates as a software access point soft AP and provides an embedded web page including a list of infra networks that can be wirelessly connected to the image forming apparatus when the image forming apparatus is connected to an external wireless device via the Wi Fi Direct function and a wireless device that displays the provided embedded web page and receives access information of an infra network to which the image forming apparatus is to be wirelessly connected via the displayed embedded web page wherein the image forming apparatus receives the access information from the wireless device and establishes a wireless network connection between the image forming apparatus and the infrastructure network based on the received access information.

According to an aspect of one or more embodiments there is provided an image forming apparatus including a wireless communication interface unit to perform a wireless communication function via which the image forming apparatus is wirelessly connected to an external wireless device and a central processing unit CPU to generate when the image forming apparatus is connected to the wireless device via the wireless communication function an embedded web page including a list of infra networks that are wirelessly connectable to the image forming apparatus wherein the wireless communication interface unit provides the generated embedded web page to the connected wireless device and receives connection information of the infra networks input via the provided embedded web page from the connected wireless device and establishes a wireless network connection between the image forming apparatus and the infra networks based on the received connection information.

According to an aspect of one or more embodiments there is provided a method of connecting an image forming apparatus to an infrastructure network via Wi Fi Direct the method including executing a Wi Fi Direct operation of the image forming apparatus so that the image forming apparatus operates as a software access point soft AP connecting the image forming apparatus to an external wireless device via the Wi Fi Direct operation displaying on the connected wireless device an embedded web page that provides a user interface screen for setting a wireless network connection between the infrastructure network which is one of a plurality of infrastructure networks that can be wirelessly connected to the image forming receiving access information of the infrastructure network to which the image forming apparatus is to be wirelessly connected from the wireless device wherein the access information is input via the displayed embedded web page and establishing the wireless network connection between the image forming apparatus and the infrastructure network based on the access information received from the wireless device.

According to an aspect of one or more embodiments there is provided at least one computer readable medium storing computer readable instructions to implement methods of embodiments.

Reference will now be made in detail to embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numerals refer to the like elements throughout. Embodiments are described below to explain the present disclosure by referring to the figures.

For clarity of description of embodiments details that are well known to one of ordinary skill in the art will be omitted. Expressions such as at least one of when preceding a list of elements modify the entire list of elements and do not modify the individual elements of the list.

Hereinafter a multi function printer MFP that supports Wi Fi Direct will be described as an example of an image forming apparatus supporting a peer to peer P2P connection. However an image forming apparatus according to embodiments is a concept also including other devices such as a printer a scanner or a facsimile and thus embodiments may also apply to those other devices in addition to an MFP.

Before describing embodiments basic connections and operations of an MFP that supports Wi Fi Direct will be described with reference to accompanying drawings.

WLAN devices supporting Wi Fi Direct hereinafter referred to as Wi Fi Direct devices may be P2P connected unlike other conventional Wi Fi supporting devices. In detail according to the conventional Wi Fi technology to form a WLAN a Wi Fi device has to be wirelessly connected to a router connected to a network infrastructure that is already established that is an access point AP . Here Wi Fi devices that are wirelessly connected may be regarded as acting as a station. However according to Wi Fi Direct one of the Wi Fi Direct devices that are to form a wireless network functions as an AP and the rest of Wi Fi Direct devices are wirelessly connected to the Wi Fi Direct device functioning as an AP and function as stations. Accordingly a wireless network between Wi Fi Direct devices may be formed without an AP connected to a network infrastructure. In addition once a wireless network is formed between Wi Fi Direct devices legacy WLAN devices such as Wi Fi devices may recognize the Wi Fi Direct device functioning as an AP as an AP and wirelessly connect thereto.

Referring to the Wi Fi Direct MFP the Wi Fi Direct smart phone and the Wi Fi Direct laptop computer which are Wi Fi Direct devices form a wireless network without an AP connected to a network infrastructure. As devices supporting Wi Fi Direct are wirelessly connected to one another without an AP connected to a network infrastructure a P2P group may be formed. Here the Wi Fi Direct MFP functions as an AP and a device that functions as an AP among the Wi Fi Direct devices is referred to as a group owner GO of a P2P group. The Wi Fi Direct smart phone and the Wi Fi Direct laptop computer are wirelessly connected to the Wi Fi Direct MFP which is a GO and function as stations that are referred to as clients. The legacy WLAN laptop computer which does not support Wi Fi Direct recognizes the Wi Fi Direct MFP which is a GO as an AP so as to wirelessly connect to a wireless network that the Wi Fi Direct devices have formed.

While the Wi Fi Direct MFP is illustrated as a GO among the Wi Fi Direct devices in according to another embodiment other Wi Fi Direct devices for example one of the Wi Fi Direct smart phone and the Wi Fi Direct laptop computer may be a GO and the Wi Fi Direct MFP may be a client to allow wireless connection. Which Wi Fi Direct device is going to be a GO is determined in an operation of Wi Fi Direct connection through negotiation as described below in detail. A Wi Fi Direct device may become a GO by itself before being connected without negotiation and such a Wi Fi Direct device is referred to as an autonomous group owner AGO . Also a wireless network that is formed around an AGO is referred to as an autonomous P2P group. When an autonomous P2P group is formed a legacy WLAN device may recognize the AGO as an AP of a network infrastructure and connect thereto.

While illustrates a P2P group that is formed by Wi Fi Direct devices without an AP connected to a network infrastructure if there is an AP connected to a network infrastructure Wi Fi Direct devices may also connect to the AP and may function as stations.

Hereinafter an operation of wireless connection between Wi Fi Direct devices and characteristics of Wi Fi Direct will be described in detail. For easy understanding an MFP supporting Wi Fi Direct hereinafter a Wi Fi Direct MFP will be described as an example. However the scope of embodiments is not limited thereto and examples of Wi Fi Direct devices may include any devices such as a printer a scanner or a fax machine that supports Wi Fi Direct. Also while Wi Fi Direct is described as an example of P2P communication other P2P communication methods such as Bluetooth or Zigbee may also be regarded as being included in embodiments within an applicable range.

Upon receiving the connection request group formation is conducted between Wi Fi Direct devices that are to be connected in operation . Group formation refers to determining which Wi Fi Direct devices are to be connected to one another and which of the Wi Fi Direct devices is going to be a GO or a client. Which Wi Fi Direct device is going to be a GO is determined through negotiation between the Wi Fi Direct devices as described below with reference to in detail.

When groups are formed devices of each group need secure connections a technique for which is Wi Fi Protected Setup WPS . WPS refers to a function of easily establishing a secure connection between Wi Fi supporting devices. Examples of WPS include a personal identification number PIN method and a push button configuration PBC method. In the PIN method a previously set PIN code is input to establish a secure connection. In the PBC method a WPS button included in a Wi Fi Direct device is pressed to establish a secure connection.

The PCB method will be described below. A user may request secure connection by pressing a WPS button included in the Wi Fi Direct MFP in operation . Then secure connection may be established by pressing a WPS button included in the Wi Fi Direct laptop computer or a WPS button implemented on an application program for Wi Fi Direct connection of the Wi Fi Direct laptop computer within a predetermined period of time usually within 120 seconds. The WPS button implemented on an application program for Wi Fi Direct connection of the Wi Fi Direct laptop computer refers to an object that is displayed on a display of the Wi Fi Direct laptop computer according to an application program for Wi Fi Direct connection. A detailed example of the WPS button is indicated by reference numeral of which will be described below. A user may request secure connection by clicking a WPS button displayed on a display of the Wi Fi Direct laptop computer by using a mouse or the like. When the WPS button is pressed to request secure connection one of the Wi Fi Direct devices that is designated as a GO in the operation of group formation transmits security information to devices that are designated as clients in operation . As secure connection is established by encoding security information according to the Wi Fi Protected Access 2 WPA2 Pre Shared Key PSK authorization method according to Wi Fi Direct security performance is much higher than conventional methods such as a Wired Equivalent Privacy WEP method or a Wi Fi Protected Access WAP method.

When conducting WPS a Wi Fi Direct device that is a client is connected to a Wi Fi Direct device that is a GO in operation and the Wi Fi Direct device that is a GO uses a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP server to automatically allocate an Internet protocol IP address to Wi Fi Direct devices in operation to thereby complete P2P connection between Wi Fi Direct devices.

As described above in the operation of wireless connection of Wi Fi Direct devices in the Wi Fi Direct MFP according to the conventional art operation of pressing a WPS button according to the PBC method or the PIN method is necessary. However the Wi Fi Direct MFP is used mostly at homes or in offices where usually the same wireless devices of a user e.g. the Wi Fi Direct smart phone the Wi Fi Direct laptop computer and the legacy WLAN laptop computer attempt Wi Fi Direct connection to the Wi Fi Direct MFP . Accordingly in the operation of wireless connection between Wi Fi Direct devices of the Wi Fi Direct MFP according to the conventional art the need for always performing operation of pressing a WPS button according to the PBC method or the PIN method may inconvenience a user.

In order to remove the inconvenience to the user due to operation of pressing the WPS button according to the conventional art an operation of wireless connection between Wi Fi Direct devices according to an embodiment is designed to omit operation of pressing a WPS button once wireless devices which were successfully connected via Wi Fi Direct.

While a basic operation for connecting between Wi Fi Direct devices has been described above hereinafter each connecting operation and characteristics of Wi Fi Direct will be described in detail with reference to the drawings.

When the group formation is completed a secure connection is established between the Wi Fi Direct devices included in the group through WPS. illustrates a display screen for executing WPS. The display screen illustrated in may be displayed on a user interface unit of a display of a Wi Fi Direct MFP. Referring to the user may select a WPS button or a PIN code to execute WPS. When executing WPS via the WPS button the WPS button of the Wi Fi Direct MFP is pressed and when WPS buttons of devices to be connected are pressed within a predetermined period of time security information is automatically exchanged between the devices and a secure connection is established. Here when the Wi Fi Direct device that is the GO provides security information the Wi Fi Direct devices that are the clients receive the security information. Also secure connection is established by encoding the security information using a WPA2 PSK authorization method and thus high security may be achieved.

However as described above input of the WPS button of may be unnecessary if Wi Fi Direct connection is repeatedly attempted by the same wireless devices to which the user has connected before in the same Wi Fi Direct environment like the home or office. Accordingly an operation of wireless connection between Wi Fi Direct devices according to an embodiment may be omitted in with respect to the Wi Fi Direct devices according to an embodiment.

A Wi Fi Direct device may be connected to a network infrastructure and then may be connected to another Wi Fi Direct device through P2P connection at the same time and this is called concurrent connection. illustrates Wi Fi Direct devices that are concurrently connected. Referring to a Wi Fi Direct MFP is connected to a smart phone which is another Wi Fi Direct device through P2P connection and is connected to an AP of a network infrastructure at the same time. The Wi Fi Direct MFP is connected to the smart phone through P2P connection and thus may directly transmit or receive printing data or the like from the smart phone and may directly transmit or receive printing data from the network infrastructure via the AP at the same time.

When Wi Fi Direct devices are concurrently connected as illustrated in or when a Wi Fi Direct device is connected using wires to a network infrastructure and also connected to another Wi Fi Direct device through P2P connection at the same time different IP addresses and MAC addresses may be used for each connection that is for connection to the network infrastructure and connection to the other Wi Fi Direct device. This is called multihoming. This multihoming allows the Wi Fi Direct device to support different services according to respective interfaces that are concurrently connected. For example services of all functions of an MFP may be provided via an interface connected to the network infrastructure but only services partial functions of the MFP may be provided via an interface that is connected to another Wi Fi Direct device.

The wireless communication interface unit refers to hardware including various types of wireless communication modules that perform the IEEE 802.11b g n function or the like e.g. a wireless LAN WLAN module a near field communication NFC module a Bluetooth module or a Zigbee module and may communicate with a main board on which the CPU is mounted of an image forming apparatus via a universal serial bus USB .

The Ethernet interface unit refers to hardware that performs wired Ethernet communication according to IEEE 802.3. The CPU controls overall operations of the image forming apparatus and the memory unit stores information for controlling the MFP and print data to be read when it is necessary. The user interface unit functions as a medium for the user to identify information of the image forming apparatus and to input a command to the image forming apparatus. The user interface unit may be configured in various ways according to products. For example the user interface unit may be simply configured as two or four lines on a display such as an LCD or a light emitting diode LED display or may be implemented as a graphic user interface GUI so as to represent various graphics. The scanner unit the fax unit and the print engine are hardware for performing functions of a scanner a fax machine and a printer.

A WLAN dongle firmware is firmware for WLAN connection which may be stored in WLAN dongle hardware or may be transmitted from a main board of an image forming apparatus to the WLAN dongle hardware when booting the image forming apparatus. A bus driver and a serial ATA STA host driver are each a low level bus driver for communication with WLAN hardware. A WLAN control channel and a WLAN data channel refer to channels for communicating with WLAN firmware. A Wi Fi Direct module is a module that conducts Wi Fi Direct connection and provides an operating command to the WLAN firmware. An IEEE 802.11u generic advertisement service GAS module performs functions according to IEEE 802.11u GAS and a WPS module performs a WPS function. A CxAPI module is an application programming interface made of C language. A soft AP module is a software module that helps an image forming apparatus to act as an AP. A transmission control protocol TCP IP is a standard protocol for network transmission. A Wi Fi Direct connection manager is a module for controlling Wi Fi Direct connection. A Wi Fi Direct user interface allows the user to conduct settings related to Wi Fi Direct and may be included in an embedded web server EWS user interface . A DHCP server automatically allocates an IP to a Wi Fi Direct device that is connected as a client. A network application program allows various application operations related to a network.

The Wi Fi Direct device is connectable to other devices anywhere and anytime and thus has maximum mobility and portability. If a new Wi Fi Direct device is added the Wi Fi Direct device may be immediately connected to the new Wi Fi Direct device and used. In addition it may be identified whether there is an available device or service before establishing the connection to other devices and thus the Wi Fi direct devices may be conveniently used. In addition the connection may be performed simply and stably by a simple operation for example pressing a WPS button and the connection may be performed with high security functions by using the WPA2 technology.

Also Wi Fi Direct technology may provide various functions that may not be provided by the conventional WLAN technology.

For example the device discovery function whereby near Wi Fi Direct devices may be found according to device types the service discovery function whereby services provided by near Wi Fi Direct devices may be found a power management function that allows efficient use of power the concurrent connection function that may form a P2P connection between the Wi Fi Direct devices while connecting to an existing network infrastructure a function of separating a security domain between the connection to the network infrastructure connection and the Wi Fi Direct connection and a cross connection function which allows sharing of internet connection may be provided by the Wi Fi Direct technology.

Also as the Wi Fi Direct technology is based on IEEE 802.11 the Wi Fi Direct devices are compatible with conventional legacy WLAN devices.

As described above an image forming apparatus includes a wired LAN Ethernet interface unit or a wireless communication interface unit the wireless communication interface unit or Ethernet interface unit of and thus may be connected to an infrastructure network. In the case of a wired connection an image forming apparatus may be connected to an infrastructure network simply by using an IP set up via a wired LAN Ethernet interface unit. However in the case of wireless connection an image forming apparatus may connect to an infrastructure network by searching for a nearby AP and selecting a desired AP and then inputting security information e.g. a password .

If an image forming apparatus includes the user interface unit see formed as a GUI the image forming apparatus may execute a wireless connection process in a stand alone manner by inputting access information for an infrastructure network via the GUI. However if an image forming apparatus does not include the user interface unit such as a GUI or a keypad the image forming apparatus may install and execute a wireless setup exclusive application stored in for example an additional universal serial bus USB device to achieve the wireless connection. However this requires a complex USB connection for wireless connection to an infrastructure wireless network and moreover an application that is exclusively for a wireless setup has to be additionally installed making it inconvenient and complicated for the user of the image forming apparatus to connect to an infrastructure network.

According to an embodiment in order to prevent the above inconvenience which occurs when an image forming apparatus not including the user interface unit such as a GUI or a keypad is to be wirelessly connected to an infrastructure network a wireless connection setup of an image forming apparatus is executed through a relay including a typical wireless device e.g. PC laptop computer smartphone or tablet computer which is connected via Wi Fi Direct so that the image forming apparatus may easily connect to an infrastructure network.

Hereinafter specific functions and operations in regard to a method of connecting an image forming apparatus to a network via Wi Fi Direct an image forming apparatus supporting Wi Fi Direct and an image forming system will be described in detail with reference to . While description below will focus on Wi Fi Direct embodiments are not limited to the Wi Fi Direct but may also be similarly applied to P2P connection of other various methods such as Ad hoc NFC Bluetooth Zigbee or the like.

Referring to an image forming apparatus a wireless device an infrastructure network wireless network and an AP are included in the image forming system . The wireless device is a Wi Fi Direct device that supports a Wi Fi function and may be for example a typical PC a laptop computer a smartphone or a tablet computer. The infrastructure network may be various types of wired or wireless networks that are typically established such as a home network environment or a company network environment. To be connected to the infrastructure network in a wireless manner wireless connection of the image forming apparatus may be set via the AP .

The image forming apparatus may be connected to the infrastructure network in a wired manner via a wired LAN interface unit not shown or a USB module not shown . Also as described above the image forming apparatus may be wirelessly connected to the infrastructure network by using the AP as a medium.

In order for the image forming apparatus to be wirelessly connected to the infrastructure network via the AP the user has to set up a wireless connection in the image forming apparatus with respect to the infrastructure network for example the user has to input an SSID or a password of the infrastructure network .

According to the image forming apparatus of an embodiment operations and functions needed for wireless connection of the image forming apparatus to the infrastructure network will be described under the assumption of embodiments in which a user interface unit not shown such as a GUI or a keypad via which a user may input information or via which information may be displayed to the user is not included or in which just a simple user interface unit for example simple buttons or a 2 line or 4 line display is included. However one or more embodiments may also be applied when a user interface unit such as a GUI or a keypad is included in the image forming apparatus .

The image forming apparatus executes a Wi Fi Direct function so as to operate as a soft AP or group owner GO when power is supplied Power On .

When the image forming apparatus operates as a soft AP the image forming apparatus may be searched for as one of devices included in a list of Wi Fi Direct connectable devices in the wireless device which is near the image forming apparatus .

When the wireless device has requested connection to the image forming apparatus via a Wi Fi Direct function the image forming apparatus and the wireless device undergo the above described operations for example the operations described with reference to or and then a wireless connection between the image forming apparatus and the wireless device is established via Wi Fi Direct.

When the image forming apparatus is connected to the wireless device via a Wi Fi Direct function the wireless device displays an embedded web page or a custom remote UI RUI provided by the image forming apparatus .

In detail an embedded web page provided by the image forming apparatus may be a web page provided to the wireless device via a web redirection function of the image forming apparatus . A web redirection function is a technique of displaying an embedded web page that is forcibly provided by the image forming apparatus upon all hypertext transfer protocol HTTP access requests in the wireless device as the wireless device which is connected to the image forming apparatus via Wi Fi Direct attempts web connection via a web browser or as a web browser is forcibly executed in the wireless device . Accordingly if the wireless device is connected to the image forming apparatus via Wi Fi Direct a user of the wireless device may be able to easily access an embedded web page provided by the image forming apparatus even though the user does not know a network address IP address of the image forming apparatus .

However as described above according to an embodiment when the image forming apparatus and the wireless device are connected via wireless communication methods other than Wi Fi Direct the wireless device may also be provided with an embedded web page by web redirection. For example an embedded web page may also be provided by web redirection to the wireless device via a P2P connection by other various methods such as Ad hoc NFC Bluetooth and Zigbee. The description below will focus on web redirection of the image forming apparatus whereby an embedded web page is provided via a Wi Fi Direct function however it will be obvious to one of ordinary skill in the art that web redirection of the image forming apparatus may also be applied to embodiments where the P2P connection of other various methods such as Ad hoc NFC Bluetooth or Zigbee rather than Wi Fi Direct is used.

The image forming apparatus providing an embedded web page to the wireless device via web redirection as described in an embodiment is just an example. That is when the image forming apparatus and the wireless device are connected via Wi Fi Direct or other P2P communication methods and as long as an embedded web page provided by the image forming apparatus may be displayed on the wireless device the image forming apparatus may provide the embedded web page to the wireless device not only via web redirection but also by using other methods and it would be obvious to one of ordinary skill in the art that these possibilities are also included in embodiments. However for convenience of description web redirection will be described as an example below and embodiments are not limited thereto.

As described above an embedded web page displayed on the wireless device via web redirection is a web page that provides a user interface screen for setting a wireless network connection between one of infrastructure networks that can be wirelessly connected to the image forming apparatus e.g. the infrastructure network and the image forming apparatus .

That is when the wireless device is connected to the image forming apparatus via a Wi Fi Direct function an embedded web page provided via web redirection of the image forming apparatus is displayed on the wireless device via a web browser of the wireless device .

The user may directly input access information for wireless connection between the image forming apparatus and the infrastructure network via an embedded web page displayed on the wireless device . Here the access information for wireless connection includes any information needed for network connection such as identification information of the infrastructure network e.g. an SSID or connection password information.

Accordingly the image forming apparatus may input access information for indirectly wirelessly connecting to the infrastructure network by using the wireless device .

The image forming apparatus receives access information that is input via an embedded web page displayed on the wireless device . Then a wireless network connection is established between the image forming apparatus and the infrastructure network based on the received access information.

Accordingly even when a user interface unit not shown such as a GUI or a keypad is not included in the image forming apparatus access information for network connection may be indirectly input or set through communication via a Wi Fi Direct function with respect to the wireless device and thus the image forming apparatus may easily wirelessly connect to the infrastructure network .

A wireless communication interface unit executes a Wi Fi Direct function so that the image forming apparatus operates as a soft AP. The wireless communication interface unit refers to hardware including various types of wireless communication modules that operate based on the IEEE 802.11b g n standards e.g. a WLAN module an NFC module a Bluetooth module or a Zigbee module .

A central processing unit CPU is a hardware component that is implemented as at least one processor. When the image forming apparatus is connected to the wireless device via a Wi Fi Direct function the CPU generates an embedded web page including a list of infrastructure networks that may be wirelessly connected to the image forming apparatus . However as described above the CPU may generate an embedded web page for web redirection not only for a Wi Fi Direct connection but also for other wireless communication methods such as an Ad hoc connection or an NFC connection.

The wireless communication interface unit provides the generated embedded web page to the wireless device . The generated embedded web page is a web page that is provided via a web redirection function of the image forming apparatus . Also the generated web page is a web page that provides a user interface screen for setting a wireless network connection between one of infrastructure networks that can be wirelessly connected to the image forming apparatus and the image forming apparatus .

The Wireless communication interface unit receives from the wireless device access information of the infrastructure network that is input via the embedded web page displayed on the wireless device .

Then the wireless communication interface unit sets up a wireless network connection between the image forming apparatus and the infrastructure network based on the access information received from the wireless device . After finishing communication with respect to the wireless device via a Wi Fi Direct function in advance the image forming apparatus may complete the wireless network connection between the image forming apparatus and the infrastructure network .

Referring to the image forming system the image forming apparatus the wireless device and the infrastructure network included in the image forming system are identical to those corresponding units included in the image forming system illustrated in .

Referring to the image forming apparatus only includes hardware components related to the current embodiment from among the hardware components of the image forming apparatus illustrated in . However it will be obvious to one of ordinary skill in the art that hardware components that are described with reference to the image forming apparatus of but are omitted in may also be applied to the image forming apparatus according to an embodiment. Also the image forming apparatus illustrated in further includes some components that are not included in the image forming apparatus illustrated in but these components are illustrated only for the purpose of explaining operations of units of the image forming system in detail.

The image forming apparatus may be connected to the infrastructure network in a wired manner via a wired LAN interface unit or the USB module . However if the wired LAN interface unit or the USB module is not available for use or if it is complicated to use them the user may want to wirelessly connect the image forming apparatus to the infrastructure network via the wireless communication interface unit .

However as assumed above if no user interface unit not shown such as a GUI or keypad is included in the image forming apparatus or if just a simple user interface is used an application which is exclusively for a wireless set up may be received via the USB module and have to be installed and there may be no other way to wirelessly connect the image forming apparatus to the infrastructure network . To solve this problem the image forming apparatus may connect to the infrastructure network by communicating with the wireless device via a Wi Fi Direct function.

When a state of the image forming apparatus is converted from a power off state to a power on state a Wi Fi Direct function of the wireless communication interface unit of the image forming apparatus or a network interface unit is activated.

The CPU of the image forming apparatus determines whether the image forming apparatus is connected to the infrastructure network via the wired LAN interface unit or the network interface unit or the USB module .

When it is determined that the image forming apparatus is not connected to the infrastructure network the wireless communication interface unit of the image forming apparatus operates as a soft AP.

When the wireless device is located within a communication range of Wi Fi Direct of the image forming apparatus in the wireless device the image forming apparatus is searched for as one of devices included in a list including devices that may be connected via Wi Fi Direct.

When the wireless device has requested connection to the image forming apparatus via a Wi Fi Direct function the image forming apparatus and the wireless device undergoes the above described operations for example the operations described with reference to or and then a wireless connection between the image forming apparatus and the wireless device is established via Wi Fi Direct.

Thereafter the wireless communication interface unit searches for a list of nearby infrastructure networks which can be wirelessly connected to the image forming apparatus .

The CPU generates an embedded web page including information about a list of searched infrastructure networks. The generated embedded web page is a web page that provides a user interface screen for setting a wireless network connection between one of infrastructure networks that can be wirelessly connected to the image forming apparatus for example the infrastructure network and the image forming apparatus .

The storage unit may store platforms of embedded web pages for generating a user interface screen as described in advance and the CPU may read out the platforms stored in advance in the storage unit when generating an embedded web page to thereby generate an embedded web page including a user interface screen as described above. Also the storage unit may store all kinds of data that is processed in the embedded web page generated by using the CPU or other portions of the image forming apparatus .

The image forming apparatus provides the generated embedded web page to the wireless device via web redirection by using the Wi Fi Direct function of the wireless communication interface unit . However as described above the image forming apparatus may provide the wireless device with an embedded web page via web redirection not only via a Wi Fi Direct function of the wireless communication interface unit but also via other wireless communication functions such as an Ad hoc function or an NFC function.

Accordingly the wireless device displays the embedded web page provided via web redirection. This operation is performed in order to attempt to establish a wireless connection to the infrastructure network as the image forming apparatus is not connected to the infrastructure network in a wired manner via the wired LAN interface unit or the USB module .

The embedded web page displayed on the wireless device via the web redirection function is a web page that provides a user interface screen for setting a wireless network connection between one of infrastructure networks that can be wirelessly connected to the image forming apparatus e.g. the infrastructure network and the image forming apparatus .

That is when the wireless device is connected to the image forming apparatus via Wi Fi Direct while the image forming apparatus is not connected to the infrastructure network via the wired LAN interface unit or the USB module in a wired manner an embedded web page provided via web redirection of the image forming apparatus is displayed in the wireless device via a web browser of the wireless device .

The user may directly input access information for wireless connection between the image forming apparatus and the infrastructure network via the embedded web page displayed on the wireless device . Here the access information for wireless connection includes any information needed for network connection such as identification information of the infrastructure network e.g. an SSID or connection password information.

The wireless communication interface unit of the image forming apparatus receives access information that is input via the embedded web page displayed on the wireless device .

The wireless communication interface unit attempts to connect to the infrastructure network by using the access information received from the wireless device .

As a result of the connection attempt if connection to the infrastructure network is possible the wireless communication interface unit finishes connection between the image forming apparatus and the wireless device via Wi Fi Direct. As the connection between the image forming apparatus and the wireless device is ended the operation of the image forming apparatus as a soft AP may also end.

When the connection between the image forming apparatus and the wireless device is ended the wireless communication interface unit establishes a wireless network connection between the image forming apparatus and the infrastructure network again based on the received access information.

Accordingly even when a user interface unit not shown such as a GUI or a keypad is not included in the image forming apparatus the image forming apparatus may be wirelessly connected to the infrastructure network by indirectly setting access information with respect to the infrastructure network through communication with the wireless device via Wi Fi Direct.

Referring to while the image forming apparatus operates as a soft AP a user interface screen displaying a list of peripheral devices which can be connected via Wi Fi Direct is displayed in the wireless device . On the user interface screen an SSID of the image forming apparatus that is operating as a soft AP SAMSUNG IFA is displayed.

When a user selects the SSID SAMSUNG IFA of the image forming apparatus displayed on the user interface unit the image forming apparatus and the wireless device are wirelessly connected via Wi Fi Direct.

When the image forming apparatus and the wireless device are wirelessly connected an embedded web page provided via web redirection of the image forming apparatus is displayed in the wireless device . As described above the embedded web page includes information about infrastructure networks to which the image forming apparatus may be wirelessly connected.

The user may directly input access information an SSID a pass word etc. for wireless connection with respect to the infrastructure network that is to be connected to the image forming apparatus from among infrastructure networks that may be wirelessly connected via the embedded web page .

According to an embodiment even when access information of the infrastructure network cannot be directly input to the image forming apparatus the user may easily establish a wireless connection between the image forming apparatus and the infrastructure network by using the wireless device .

In operation when the image forming apparatus is not connected to the infrastructure network in a wired manner the wireless communication interface unit of the image forming apparatus activates a Wi Fi Direct function so that the image forming apparatus operates as a soft AP.

In operation when the wireless device is located within a communication range of Wi Fi Direct of the image forming apparatus the image forming apparatus is searched for as one of devices of a list including devices that may be connected via Wi Fi Direct in the wireless device . When the wireless device has requested connection to the image forming apparatus via a Wi Fi Direct function the image forming apparatus and the wireless device undergo the above described operations for example the operations described with reference to or and then a wireless connection between the image forming apparatus and the wireless device is established via Wi Fi Direct.

In operation the wireless communication interface unit searches for nearby infrastructure networks that can be connected to the image forming apparatus and as a result of the search a list of nearby infrastructure networks that can be wirelessly connected SSIDs of nearby infrastructure networks security information etc. is collected.

In operation the CPU of the image forming apparatus generates an embedded web page including information about a list of collected infrastructure networks. The embedded web page is a web page that provides a user interface screen for setting a wireless network connection between one of infrastructure networks to which the image forming apparatus may be connected and the image forming apparatus .

Then the image forming apparatus provides the generated embedded web page to the wireless device via web redirection.

In operation a user directly inputs access information for wireless connection between the image forming apparatus and the infrastructure network via the embedded web page displayed on the wireless device . Here the access information for wireless connection includes any information needed for network connection such as identification information of the infrastructure network e.g. an SSID or connection password information.

In operation the wireless device transmits the access information input via Wi Fi Direct to the image forming apparatus . That is the wireless communication interface unit of the image forming apparatus receives the input access information via the embedded web page displayed on the wireless device .

In operation the wireless communication interface unit attempts to connect to the infrastructure network based on the access information received from the wireless device .

In operation if connection to the infrastructure network is possible as a result of the connection attempt the wireless communication interface unit ends Wi Fi Direct connection between the image forming apparatus and the wireless device . As the connection between the image forming apparatus and the wireless device is ended the operation of the image forming apparatus as a soft AP may also end.

In operation when the connection between the image forming apparatus and the wireless device is ended the wireless communication interface unit establishes a wireless network connection between the image forming apparatus and the infrastructure network again based on the received access information.

In operation the image forming apparatus executes a Wi Fi Direct function so as to operate as a soft AP.

In operation when the image forming apparatus is connected to the wireless device via a Wi Fi Direct function the wireless device displays an embedded web page provided by the image forming apparatus .

In operation the image forming apparatus receives from the wireless device access information of an infrastructure network to which the image forming apparatus is to be wirelessly connected via the embedded web page displayed on the wireless device .

In operation the image forming apparatus establishes a wireless network connection between the image forming apparatus and the infrastructure network based on the access information received from the wireless device .

According to embodiments even when an image forming apparatus does not include an input unit such as a graphic user interface GUI or a keypad or includes just simple buttons access information needed for wireless connection of the image forming apparatus to an infrastructure network via communication by using a Wi Fi Direct function may be input or set and thus the image forming apparatus may be easily wirelessly connected to the infrastructure network.

Processes functions methods and or software in apparatuses described herein may be recorded stored or fixed in one or more non transitory computer readable storage media computer readable recording medium that includes program instructions computer readable instructions to be implemented by a computer to cause one or more processors to execute or perform the program instructions. The media may also include alone or in combination with the program instructions data files data structures and the like. The media and program instructions may be those specially designed and constructed or they may be of the kind well known and available to those having skill in the computer software arts. Examples of non transitory computer readable storage media include magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROM disks and DVDs magneto optical media such as optical disks and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and perform program instructions such as read only memory ROM random access memory RAM flash memory and the like. Examples of program instructions include machine code such as produced by a compiler and files containing higher level code that may be executed by the computer using an interpreter. The program instructions may be executed by one or more processors. The described hardware devices may be configured to act as one or more software modules that are recorded stored or fixed in one or more computer readable storage media in order to perform the operations and methods described above or vice versa. In addition a non transitory computer readable storage medium may be distributed among computer systems connected through a network and computer readable codes or program instructions may be stored and executed in a decentralized manner. In addition the computer readable storage media may also be embodied in at least one application specific integrated circuit ASIC or Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA .

While exemplary embodiments have been particularly shown and described it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein and that embodiments should be considered in a descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

Although a few embodiments have been shown and described it would be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes may be made in these embodiments without departing from the principles and spirit of the disclosure the scope of which is defined in the claims and their equivalents.

