---

title: Waveguide for near field communication
abstract: A computing device comprises a head that can be physically attached to a base. The head may be capable of functioning as a type of computing device independent of the base. The base may include a base transceiver to receive data from a first component of the base, encode the data into a signal, and transmit the signal. The base may include a base waveguide to guide the signal to a head waveguide of the head. The head may include a head transceiver to receive the signal from the head waveguide, decode the data from the signal, and send the data to a second component of the head.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09444525&OS=09444525&RS=09444525
owner: Dell Products L.P.
number: 09444525
owner_city: Round Rock
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141219
---
As the value and use of information continues to increase individuals and businesses seek additional ways to process and store information. One option available to users is information handling systems. An information handling system generally processes compiles stores and or communicates information or data for business personal or other purposes thereby allowing users to take advantage of the value of the information. Because technology and information handling needs and requirements vary between different users or applications information handling systems may also vary regarding what information is handled how the information is handled how much information is processed stored or communicated and how quickly and efficiently the information may be processed stored or communicated. The variations in information handling systems allow for information handling systems to be general or configured for a specific user or specific use such as financial transaction processing airline reservations enterprise data storage or global communications. In addition information handling systems may include a variety of hardware and software components that may be configured to process store and communicate information and may include one or more computer systems data storage systems and networking systems.

Near field communication NFC is a form of short range wireless communication where an antenna that is smaller than a wavelength of the carrier signal may be used to transmit the carrier signal. In the near field approximately one quarter of a wavelength the antenna may produce an electric field a magnetic field etc. However some forms of NFC may require that the transmitter and receiver be i in close proximity e.g. 10 mm or less ii within a line of sight or both. Such usage restrictions may limit the applications in which NFC can be used.

This Summary provides a simplified form of concepts that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key or essential features and should therefore not be used for determining or limiting the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In some embodiments a computing device comprises a head that can be physically attached to a base. The head may be capable of functioning as a computing device independent of the base. The base may include a base transceiver to receive data from a first component of the base encode the data into a signal and transmit the signal. The base may include a base waveguide to guide the signal to a head waveguide of the head. The head may include a head transceiver to receive the signal from the head waveguide decode the data from the signal and send the data to a second component of the head.

In some embodiments a head of a computing device may be attached to a base of the computing device. Data from a first component of the base may be received at a base transceiver of the base. The base transceiver may encode the data into a signal. A base waveguide of the base may receive the signal from the base transceiver. The base waveguide may have a plurality of prongs. The signal may be transmitted from the base waveguide to a head waveguide of the head. A head transceiver of the head may receive the signal from the head waveguide. The head transceiver may decode the data from the signal and send the data to a second component of the head.

In some embodiments a head of a computing device may be attached to a base of the computing device. Data from a first component of the head may be received at a head transceiver of the head. The head transceiver may encode the data into a signal. A head waveguide of the head may receive the signal from the head transceiver. The signal may be transmitted from the head waveguide to a base waveguide of the base. The base waveguide may have a plurality of prongs. A base transceiver of the base may receive the signal from the base waveguide. The base transceiver may decode the data from the signal and send the data to a second component of the base.

For purposes of this disclosure an information handling system may include any instrumentality or aggregate of instrumentalities operable to compute calculate determine classify process transmit receive retrieve originate switch store display communicate manifest detect record reproduce handle or utilize any form of information intelligence or data for business scientific control or other purposes. For example an information handling system may be a personal computer e.g. desktop or laptop tablet computer mobile device e.g. personal digital assistant PDA or smart phone server e.g. blade server or rack server a network storage device or any other suitable device and may vary in size shape performance functionality and price. The information handling system may include random access memory RAM one or more processing resources such as a central processing unit CPU or hardware or software control logic ROM and or other types of nonvolatile memory. Additional components of the information handling system may include one or more disk drives one or more network ports for communicating with external devices as well as various input and output I O devices such as a keyboard a mouse touchscreen and or video display. The information handling system may also include one or more buses operable to transmit communications between the various hardware components.

As computing devices such as tablets notebooks wireless phones and the like continue to proliferate many of these devices may be designed using two or more components. For example a computing device such as a 2 in 1 computing device may include two components such as a head and a base. The head component may include a touchscreen display device and may be independently usable as a computing device such as a tablet computer or a wireless phone. In addition attaching the head to the base may enable the head to access resources that are included in the base such as one or more input devices e.g. keyboard touch pad keypad etc. one or more storage devices e.g. random access memory RAM read only memory ROM other types of memory disk drives other types of storage devices etc. one or more ports e.g. a universal serial bus USB port a serial port a digital video interface DVI port a high definition multimedia interface HDMI port a card reader e.g. for reading a compact flash card a secure digital SD card etc. another type of resource or any combination thereof. In this way the 2 in 1 computing device may be used as two devices e.g. either as a first type of computing device e.g. such as a tablet when using just the head or as a second type of computing device e.g. such as a laptop when the head is coupled to the base .

In a conventional 2 in 1 computing device the head may be electrically coupled to the base using electrical contacts that enable the head and base to communicate with each other e.g. to enable the head to access the resources of the base etc. . However having exposed electrical contacts on the head and the base may result in the electrical contacts becoming corroded dirty worn damaged or any combination thereof. Therefore a 2 in 1 computing device that uses near field communication NFC to enable the head to communicate with the base may avoid problems caused by the electrical contacts becoming corroded dirty worn damaged etc.

A 2 in 1 computing device may be designed such that when the head is coupled to the base the head may rotate relative to the base. For example the head of the 2 in 1 computing device may rotate relative to the base to enable a user to position the screen at a particular viewing angle similar to the way the user may position a screen of a laptop. When NFC is used to enable communications between the head and the base a first transmitter receiver referred to hereinafter as a transceiver may be included in the head and a second transceiver may be included in the base. The NFC may work when the first transceiver and the second transceiver are i in close proximity e.g. 10 mm or less and ii within a line of sight but may not work if they are greater than 10 mm apart or not within a line of sight.

To enable NFC based communications between a head and a base in a 2 in 1 computing device where the head is capable of rotating relative to the base one or more waveguides may be used to receive a transmission from a transmitter e.g. a first transceiver and provide e.g. transmit the transmission to a receiver e.g. a second transceiver . A waveguide is a structure that guides waves such as electromagnetic waves from the first transceiver to the second transceiver. For example the waveguide may vibrate in response to receiving a signal e.g. carrier signal from a transmitter and transmit the vibrations to a receiver. The waveguide may be made from a material such as plastic metal glass wood another type of material or any combination thereof.

Thus one or more transceivers and one or more waveguides may be used to enable communications between a head and a base of a 2 in 1 computing device to enable the head to be positioned at different angles such that the transceivers in the head and base do not need to be in close proximity nor within a line of sight of each other.

In some embodiments the waveguide may use a design that enables the head to be attached to the base in either a forward configuration or a reverse configuration. For example the waveguide may include multiple prongs where a first portion of the prongs are used for communications when the head is attached to the base in the forward configuration and a second portion of the prongs are used when the head is attached to the base in the reverse configuration.

The head may include a display one or more processors and computer readable storage media to store instructions. The one or more processors may access the computer readable storage media to execute the instructions to perform various functions. For example the head may be detached from the base for use as a tablet computing device. The head may receive input via a touch screen display using a finger or other appendage a stylus a keyboard superimposed on the touch screen display another type of touch input mechanism or any combination thereof.

The head may receive input via buttons a microphone e.g. using voice recognition another type of input mechanism or any combination thereof.

The base may include resources such as one or more input devices e.g. a keyboard a touch pad etc. one or more storage devices e.g. random access memory RAM disk drives etc. one or more input output I O ports e.g. a universal serial bus USB port a high definition multimedia interface HDMI port a card reader e.g. for reading a compact flash card a secure digital SD card etc. another type of computing resource or any combination thereof. When the head is coupled to the base the head and the base may be capable of contactless communication with each other. When coupled to the base the head may access one or more of the resources of the base . For example the head may receive input from the input devices of the base . The head may display the input received from the base on the touchscreen display device of the head . The head may store data on a storage device of the base . The head may retrieve data stored on a storage device of the base or connected to the base using an I O port and display at least part of the data on the touchscreen display device of the head . Of course other examples of a head and a base may have other I O devices and components.

The head may be capable of being physically coupled to the base and later de coupled from the base . The base includes a head transceiver and a head waveguide . The base includes a base waveguide and a base transceiver . In some embodiments the head waveguide may be mounted off center in such a way that the head waveguide is in close proximity to a first portion of the base waveguide in a forward orientation and when the head is reversed relative to the base the head waveguide is in close proximity to a second portion of the base waveguide in a reverse orientation.

The transceivers and waveguides may operate at radio frequencies in the extremely high frequency EHF band e.g. between 30 Gigahertz GHz and 300 GHz. For example in a particular embodiment the transceivers may communicate at approximately 60 GHz. In some embodiments the transceivers may be implemented using a technology such as complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS . The transceivers may be capable of transmitting and receiving signals with a bandwidth of 5 Gigabits per second Gbps or more. The transceivers and waveguides do not make contact each other. The transmitter component of the transceivers is used to transmit signals and the receiver component of the transceivers is used to receive signals.

When transmitting from the head to the base the head transceiver may receive data from a component of the head encode the data into a signal e.g. carrier signal and transmit the signal. The head waveguide may conduct e.g. guide the signal to the base waveguide . The base waveguide may conduct the signal to the base transceiver . The base transceiver may receive the signal decode the data from the signal and send the data to one or more of the components e.g. resources of the base .

When transmitting from the base to the head the base transceiver may receive data from a component of the base and encode the data into the a signal. The base waveguide may conduct e.g. guide the signal to the head waveguide . The head waveguide may conduct the signal to the head transceiver . The head transceiver may receive the signal extract e.g. decode the data from the signal and send the to one or more of the components of the head .

Thus a computing device may include a head and a base that uses contactless communication to communicate with each other when the head is physically coupled to the base . The contactless communication may be achieved using a first transceiver that receives data and transmits the data using an EHF signal as the carrier. A first waveguide may transmit the EHF signal to a second waveguide. The second waveguide may receive the EHF signal and guide the signal to a second transceiver that extracts the data from the signal and sends the data to a destination. The waveguides and transceivers may be positioned to enable the head to rotate relative to the base. For example a user may place the head in different orientations e.g. a forward orientation or a reverse orientation and at different angles relative to the base without affecting the ability of the head and the base to communicate with each other.

After the head is coupled to the base the head may be placed at various angles relative to the base while the distance between a tip of the head waveguide and the base waveguide is relatively constant e.g. does not change significantly as shown in . The tip of the head waveguide is a portion of the head waveguide that is located at an opposite end from the head transceiver . Thus the distance between the tip of the head waveguide and the base waveguide may remain relatively constant thereby enabling contactless communication between the head and the base regardless of the angle between the head and the base .

The head waveguide includes at least one prong . Purely for illustration purposes the head waveguide is illustrated in as including seven prongs. Of course depending on the embodiment the head waveguide may have more than seven prongs or few than seven prongs. The base waveguide includes at least one prong . For example in embodiments where the head may be coupled to the base in both a forward orientation and a reverse orientation the base waveguide may include at least one prong in a center location.

As illustrated in when transmitting from the head to the base the head transceiver may receive data from a component of the head and encode the data into a signal . The head waveguide may conduct e.g. guide the signal to the base waveguide . The base waveguide may conduct the signal to the base transceiver . The base transceiver may receive the signal extract the data from the signal and send the data to one or more of the components e.g. resources of the base .

When transmitting from the base to the head the base transceiver may receive data from a component of the base and encode the data into a signal . The base waveguide may conduct e.g. guide the signal to the head waveguide . The head waveguide may conduct the signal to the head transceiver . The head transceiver may receive the signal extract the data from the signal and send the data to one or more of the components e.g. the touchscreen display of the head .

Thus the waveguides may include one or more prongs that are used to guide a signal from one waveguide to another waveguide. The transceivers may encode the data into the signal for transmission via the waveguides and decode the data from the signal .

While the base waveguide is illustrated as including U shaped prongs in some embodiments different shaped prongs may be used to enable multiple orientations. In embodiments that enable the head to attach to the base in more than one orientation the prongs of the base waveguide may be arranged symmetrically to enable the forward orientation and the reverse orientation .

As illustrated in in both the forward orientation and the reverse orientation the head may be placed at different angles relative to the base . The waveguides may provide a contactless connection between the head and the base to enable the head to communicate with the base regardless of the position of the head relative to the base .

The I O devices may each include but are not limited to one or more of a keyboard a keypad a touch pad a mouse a trackball a speaker a microphone a camera another type of input device or any combination thereof. The communication interfaces may include interfaces compatible with wired protocols such as Ethernet high definition media interface HDMI digital video interface DVI Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS digital subscriber line DSL or the like. The communication interfaces compatible with wireless protocols such as code division multiple access CDMA global system mobile GSM WiFi e.g. 8012.11 BlueTooth or the like. The storage devices may include mass storage devices such as disk drives solid state drives SSDs etc.

Processors may be a microprocessor controller a programmable logic device such as a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other hardware resource operable to provide computing device functionality for the head and the base respectively.

Memory may be any form of volatile or non volatile memory including magnetic media optical media random access memory RAM including dynamic RAM DRAM and static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM erasable programmable memory solid state memory such as flash memory removable media or any other suitable local or remote memory component or components. In particular embodiments memory may include random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory. Memory may include one or more memories. Memory may store any suitable data or information utilized by the computing device including one or more software modules embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware. In particular embodiments memory may include main memory for storing instructions for processors to execute and memory may include main memory for storing instructions for processors to execute. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs may reside between the processors and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processors and one or more memory management units MMUs may reside between the processors and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processors . As used herein memory do not include purely transitory media such as signals and communication media. As such memory is a form of non transitory computer readable media. As used herein non transitory computer readable media includes one or more of optical storage magnetic storage RAM ROM solid state memory such as flash memory a hard disk drive a floppy drive tape storage a smart card an integrated circuit and so forth.

Software modules include one or more of applications bytecode computer programs executable files computer executable instructions program modules code expressed as source code in a high level programming language such as C C Perl or other a low level programming code such as machine code etc. An example software module is a basic input output system BIOS file. A software module may include an application programming interface API a dynamic link library DLL file an executable e.g. .exe file firmware and so forth.

Processes described herein may be illustrated as a collection of blocks in a logical flow graph which represent a sequence of operations that can be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof. In the context of software the blocks represent computer executable instructions that are executable by one or more processors to perform the recited operations. The order in which the operations are described or depicted in the flow graph is not intended to be construed as a limitation. Also one or more of the described blocks may be omitted without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Although various embodiments of the method and apparatus of the present invention have been illustrated herein in the Drawings and described in the Detailed Description it will be understood that the invention is not limited to the embodiments disclosed but is capable of numerous rearrangements modifications and substitutions without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

