---

title: Systems and methods for automatically saving a state of a communication session
abstract: A system comprising a computer-readable storage medium storing at least one program and a computer-implemented method for automatically saving and presenting a state of a communication session are presented. The communication session may be established between a client device of a user and an application server of a content publisher. In some embodiments, the method may include determining that the communication session includes a typical process flow of the user, and identifying an operation that is likely to be repeated during the communication session based on the typical process flow. Session data representative of a state of the communication session may then be stored in response to identifying the operation that is likely to be repeated. The method may further include generating and presenting an interface that includes a visual representation of the session data, and allows a user to return to the saved state of the communication session.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09549028&OS=09549028&RS=09549028
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 09549028
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140218
---
This application relates to data processing. In particular example embodiments may relate to systems and methods for automatically saving a state of a data exchange session.

Users browsing through online content may wish to return to a previous state of their browsing experience e.g. a previously visited webpage . Current bookmarking technology provided by internet browsers allow users to bookmark e.g. save certain web pages. However such bookmarking services are limited in the types of data that may be recalled e.g. no contextual information is saved and are often unable to save the state of certain pages e.g. checkout pages filled out forms etc. with elements that may be time sensitive. Thus in order to return to the desired state of their browsing session users must go through the inefficient process of recreating each of the steps e.g. keyword searches performed items clicked pages viewed or the like that lead to the desired state. Further users must be conscious of the need to revisit such pages at the time of bookmarking. Moreover in some instances a user may need to revisit a certain step in their browsing process multiple times during a particular session but never again once the session has terminated. In these instances the user would not likely go through the effort of creating a bookmark although the need to revisit the page exists.

Reference will now be made in detail to specific example embodiments for carrying out the inventive subject matter. Examples of these specific embodiments are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. It will be understood that they are not intended to limit the scope of the claims to the described embodiments. On the contrary they are intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the scope of the disclosure. In the following description specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject matter. Embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In accordance with the present disclosure components process steps and data structures may be implemented using various types of operating systems programming languages computing platforms computer programs and or general purpose machines.

Aspects of the present disclosure describe systems and methods for saving and presenting a state of a communication session. The communication session may be established between a client device and an application server of a content publisher and may include the presentation of content on the client device. For example a communication session may include searching viewing comparing and purchasing items offered for sale in an online marketplace. The state of the communication session may represent the entire context leading to and forming the condition of a communication session at a particular time. The state of the communication session may include a series of actions performed by a user while being engaged in online activity e.g. viewing a webpage exchanging data with an application server etc. . As used herein a user or an entity may be a person e.g. a human a business e.g. a company an organization a group of people a persona e.g. a fictitious character a bot or any combination thereof.

Session data representative of the state of the communication session may be automatically stored consistent with some embodiments. In other embodiments the method may include receiving user input to save a state of the communication session and in response to the user input saving session data representative of the state of the communication session.

The method may further include generating and causing the presentation of an interface that includes a visual representation of the saved state. These interfaces may allow a user to navigate back to the saved state of the communication session. In this manner a user may be able to recall a state of the communication session without having to recreate the flow e.g. the series of actions leading to the saved state of the communication session. Additionally a user may avoid repeating operations that the user typically performs multiple times during a given communication session.

Aspects of the present disclosure may also include systems and methods for grouping the visual representations of the session data according to similar attributes of the states represented by the session data. Further aspects of these embodiments of the present invention may include providing personalization services e.g. recommendations and search results based on saved communication session states.

The network based content publisher may communicate and exchange data within the network system that may pertain to various functions and aspects associated with the network system and its users. The network based content publisher may provide server side functionality via a network e.g. the Internet to one or more client devices e.g. client device . The one or more client devices may be operated by users that use the network system to exchange data over a network . These transactions may include transmitting receiving communicating and processing data to from and regarding content and users of the network system . The data may include but are not limited to images video or audio content user preferences product and service feedback advice and reviews product service manufacturer and vendor recommendations and identifiers product and service listings associated with buyers and sellers product and service advertisements auction bids transaction data and social data among other things.

In various embodiments the data exchanged within the network system may be dependent upon user selected functions available through one or more client or user interfaces UIs . The UIs may be associated with a client device such as the client device using web client . The web client may be in communication with the network based content publisher via a web server . The UIs may also be associated with one or more applications executing on the client device such as a client application designed for interacting with the network based content publisher applications or services hosted by the network based content publisher or the third party server e.g. one or more servers or client devices hosting a third party application .

The client device may be any of a variety of types of devices. For example the client device may a mobile device such as an iPhone or other mobile device running the iOS operating system the Android operating system a BlackBerry operating system the Microsoft Windows Phone operating system Symbian OS or webOS . Consistent with some embodiments the client device may alternatively be a tablet computer such as an iPad or other tablet computer running one of the aforementioned operating systems. In some embodiments the client device may also be a personal digital assistant PDA a personal navigation device PND a handheld computer a desktop computer a laptop or netbook a set top box STB such as provided by cable or satellite content providers a wearable computing device such as glasses or a wristwatch a multimedia device embedded in an automobile a Global Positioning System GPS device a data enabled book reader or a video game system console such as the Nintendo Wii the Microsoft Xbox 360 or the Sony PlayStation 3 or other video game system consoles.

The client device may interface via a connection with the communication network e.g. the Internet or wide area network WAN . Depending on the form of the client device any of a variety of types of connection and communication networks may be used. For example the connection may be Code Division Multiple Access CDMA connection a Global System for Mobile communications GSM connection or other type of cellular connection. Such a connection may implement any of a variety of types of data transfer technology such as Single Carrier Radio Transmission Technology 1 RTT Evolution Data Optimized EVDO technology General Packet Radio Service GPRS technology Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE technology or other data transfer technology e.g. fourth generation wireless 4G networks . When such technology is employed the communication network may include a cellular network that has a plurality of cell sites of overlapping geographic coverage interconnected by cellular telephone exchanges. These cellular telephone exchanges may be coupled to a network backbone e.g. the public switched telephone network PSTN a packet switched data network or to other types of networks .

In another example the connection may be Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi IEEE 802.11x type connection a Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX connection or another type of wireless data connection. In such an embodiment the communication network may include one or more wireless access points coupled to a local area network LAN a WAN the Internet or other packet switched data network. In yet another example the connection may be a wired connection for example an Ethernet link and the communication network may be a LAN a WAN the Internet or other packet switched data network. Accordingly a variety of different configurations are expressly contemplated.

Turning specifically to the network based content publisher the API server and a web server are coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to an application server . The application server may for example host a marketplace application which may provide a number of content publishing and viewing functions and services to users that access the network based content publisher . The application server may further host a plurality of user accounts for users of the network based content publisher which may be stored in a database . As illustrated in the application server may also host a scratchpad application which may be configured to store and generate scratchpad interfaces with session data representative of a state of a communication session. Such scratchpad interface may for example be presented on one of the client device .

As illustrated in the application server may be coupled via the API server and the web server to the communication network for example via wired or wireless interfaces. The application server is in turn shown to be coupled to a database server that facilitates access to the database . In some examples the application server can access the database directly without the need for the database server . In some embodiments the database may include multiple databases that may be internal or external to the network based content publisher .

The database may store data pertaining to various functions and aspects associated with the network system and its users. For example user accounts for users of the network based content publisher may be stored and maintained in the database . Each user account may comprise user data that describes aspects of a particular user. The user data may include demographic data user preferences and financial information. The demographic data may for example include information describing one or more characteristics of a user. Demographic data may for example include gender age location information employment history education history contact information familial relations or user interests. The financial information may for example include private financial information of the user such as account number credential password device identifier user name phone number credit card information bank information transaction history or other financial information which may be used to facilitate online transactions by the user. Consistent with some embodiments the transaction history may include information related to transactions for items or services collectively referred to as products that may be offered for sale by merchants using marketplace services provided by the network based content publisher . The transaction history information may for example include a description of a product purchased by the user an identifier of the product a category to which the product belongs a purchase price a quantity or a number of bids.

The user data may also include a record of user activity consistent with some embodiments. Each user session may be stored in the database as session data and such session data may be maintained as part of the user data about each user. Accordingly in some embodiments the user data may include past keyword searches that users have performed web pages viewed by each user products added to a user wish list or watch list products added to an electronic shopping cart and products that the users own. User preferences may be inferred from the user activity.

While the marketplace application and the scratchpad application are shown in to both form part of the network based content publisher it will be appreciated that in alternative embodiments the scratchpad application may form part of a service that is separate and distinct from the network based content publisher . Further while the system shown in employs client server architecture the present inventive subject matter is of course not limited to such an architecture and could equally well find application in an event driven distributed or peer to peer architecture system for example. The various modules of the application server may also be implemented as standalone systems or software programs which do not necessarily have networking capabilities. It shall be appreciated that although the various functional components of the network system are discussed in the singular sense multiple instances of one of more of the various functional components may be employed.

The marketplace application may provide a number of publishing listing and price setting mechanisms whereby a seller may list or publish information concerning goods or services for sale a buyer can express interest in or indicate a desire to purchase such goods or services and a price can be set for a transaction pertaining to the goods or services. To this end the marketplace application is shown to include a publication module and an auction module which support auction format listing and price setting mechanisms e.g. English Dutch Vickrey Chinese Double Reverse auctions etc. . The auction module may also provide a number of features in support of such auction format listings such as a reserve price feature whereby a seller may specify a reserve price in connection with a listing and a proxy bidding feature whereby a bidder may invoke automated proxy bidding.

A fixed price module may support fixed price listing formats e.g. the traditional classified advertisement type listing or a catalogue listing and buyout type listings. Specifically buyout type listings e.g. including the Buy It Now BIN technology developed by eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. may be offered in conjunction with auction format listings and allow a buyer to purchase goods or services which are also being offered for sale via an auction for a fixed price that is typically higher than the starting price of the auction.

A store module may allow sellers to group their product listings e.g. goods and or services within a virtual store which may be branded and otherwise personalized by and for the sellers. Such a virtual store may also offer promotions incentives and features that are specific and personalized to a relevant seller. In one embodiment the listings and or transactions associated with the virtual store and its features may be provided to one or more users.

Navigation of the network based content publisher may be facilitated by a navigation module . For example a search module may inter alia enable key word searches of listings published via the network based content publisher . A browser module may allow users via an associated UI to browse various category catalogue inventory social network and review data structures within the network based content publisher . Various other navigation modules e.g. an external search engine may be provided to supplement the search and browsing modules. Consistent with some embodiments the results for key word searches of listings published via the network based content publisher may be filtered to include only listings corresponding to social network connections of the user e.g. indicated friends and family .

In one embodiment an electronic shopping cart module is used to create an electronic shopping cart used by users of the network based content publisher to add and store products e.g. goods and services listed by the store module . The electronic shopping cart module may also be used to check out meaning a user may purchase products in the electronic shopping cart. The electronic shopping cart module may facilitate the transactions by automatically finding the products in the electronic shopping cart across at least one or all of a predefined set of vendors a comparison shopping site an auction site etc. In various embodiments the selection criteria for which vendor or vendors to purchase from may include but are not limited to criteria such as lowest cost fastest shipping time preferred or highest rated vendors or sellers or any combination thereof.

As illustrated in the marketplace application may include a payment module that may provide a number of payment services and functions to users. The payment module may allow users to accumulate value e.g. in a commercial currency such as the U.S. dollar or a proprietary currency such as points in accounts and then later to redeem the accumulated value for products e.g. goods or services that are made available via the payment module . For some example embodiments the payment module generally enables transfer of values e.g. funds reward points etc. from an account associated with one party e.g. a sender to another account associated with another party e.g. a receiver .

As illustrated in the marketplace application may include a recommendation module which may provide recommendation services and functions to users. In some embodiments the recommendation module may receive requests for recommendations and in turn provide a recommendation to the user based on information about the user maintained as part of the user data. In some embodiments the recommendation module may automatically generate and provide a recommendation based on the activity of the user. The recommendations provided by the recommendation module may contain one or more items e.g. products offered for sale articles blogs movies social network connections etc. that may potentially interest a user. The recommendations may for example be based on previous products purchased by the user a web page viewed by the user or an item given favorable feedback by the user or communication session states saved using the scratchpad application .

Consistent with some embodiments the user input module may be configured to receive user input generated by one or more input output I O devices that may be included with or communicatively coupled to the client device . Depending on the form of the client device the I O devices may for example be a mouse a track pad a keypad a keyboard a multi touch sensing surface e.g. a touchscreen or trackpad a microphone a speaker a camera and the like. The user input may be received by one of the aforementioned I O devices and in some embodiments transmitted to the application server for receipt by the user input module .

The state module may be configured to capture and store session data that is representative of a state of a communication session and may be used to recall the state of the communication session. Session data refers to a series of steps events or actions performed by a user when visiting a web site or other such activity performed during a communication session while using one or more applications executing on a client device e.g. client device . Example session data includes events that describe the actions performed by a user when conducting an online transaction completing an online form taking an online survey and participating in other online activities that involve two or more steps performed by the user.

The session data may include interactions of the client device with the application server such as information provided by a user buttons or other visual indicators activated by the user an identification of steps completed by the user keystrokes cursor and pointer movements actions canceled by the user and other types of clickstream data. Accordingly the state module may be configured to monitor track and record the activities and interactions of a user using one or more devices e.g. client device with the various modules of the network system . The session data may further include contextual information e.g. a device ID location information or other device data provided by one or more applications executing on a client device as part of the communication session.

The session data may include user requests transmitted to the application server such as keyword search queries performed requests for recommendations web page view requests requests to add a product to a user wish list watch list or electronic shopping cart or the like. The session data may also include responses to the user requests transmitted by the application server such as keyword search results recommendations web pages interfaces for a wish list watch list or electronic shopping cart or the like. It will be appreciated that in some embodiments the keyword searches recommendations and web pages may correspond to one or more listings created and maintained by the marketplace application .

The state module may automatically capture and store the session data without further user interaction or in response to the receipt of user input e.g. received by the user input module . The state module may store the session data in the database e.g. as an XML based text document in a machine readable medium of a client device of the user e.g. client device or both.

The user interface module may be configured to generate a scratchpad interface to be presented on client devices of a user. The scratchpad interfaces generated by the user interface module allow users to quickly save access organize and compare items of interest. Scratchpad interfaces may be displayed in conjunction with multiple other scratchpad interfaces that are involved in a given communication session e.g. with the client device . The scratchpad interfaces may include at least a visual representation of session data captured by the state module that is representative of a state of a communication session.

Consistent with some embodiments each scratchpad interface may include visual representations of multiple sets of session data. Depending on the user s activity during a given data session the multiple sets of session data may include both homogeneous and heterogeneous groups. For example a homogeneous group of session data sets may include data related to a particular category of product e.g. digital cameras while a heterogeneous group of session data may include data related to products from various categories of product e.g. a digital camera a holiday sweater and a toaster .

In some embodiments the scratchpad interface may include functionality to allow a user to compare multiple items included in multiple sets of session data. In some embodiments this functionality may be provided to users upon receiving user input e.g. received by the user input module requesting a comparison of a homogeneous group of session data sets. The comparison may include a comparison of various attributes of items included in session data. For example the scratchpad interface may contain a homogeneous group of three sets of session data. The first set of session data may relate to a first digital camera the second set of session data may relate to a second digital camera and the third set of session data may relate to a third digital camera. Following this example the state module may upon receiving appropriate user input generate a display of the three sets of session data in a manner for convenient comparison of the three digital cameras including a comparison of a select set of attributes of each.

The user interface module may be further configured to name each set of session data corresponding to respective communication session states. The name assigned to each set of session data may be based on user input or may be automatically assigned based on information in the session data. More particularly the user interface module may for example name a particular set of session data according to the type of communication session e.g. shopping a process flow being employed in the communication session e.g. checkout flow operations performed leading up to the state of the communication session e.g. a particular search query performed a page being viewed or the like.

The analysis module may be configured to analyze activity of a user during communication sessions to identify certain states of communication session that may be of interest. To this end the analysis module may analyze the activity of a user to learn typical process flows of the user. A typical process flow refers to a particular sequence of operations regularly performed by the user to achieve a particular result. Each operation of a sequence may have an ordered dependency on the other operations. A user may have a different typical process flow for each type of achievable result. For example a user may have a typical process flow that corresponds to the purchase of an item another typical process flow for researching information and another typical process flow for listing an item for sale. The types of achievable results may include but are not limited to a completed web based form a completed web based search a completed transaction or successfully listing an item for sale e.g. via marketplace application .

As part of learning a typical process flow of a user the analysis module may identify certain inefficiencies of the user s typical process flow. For example the analysis module may determine that a user often returns to a particular state or repeats a particular operation of the sequence or a subset thereof.

Upon learning the typical process flow of a user the analysis module may determine that subsequent communication sessions involve or include a typical process flow of the user. This determination that a communication session involves or includes a typical process flow may be based on the user performing operations ordered in the manner of the typical process flow. In this manner the analysis module may be able to anticipate certain operations that a user will perform during the communication session because the analysis module is aware of the operations typically performed by the user and the order of such operations. Further the analysis module may anticipate when a user is going to save a certain state of a communication session based on the user previously saving a state of a previous communication session that resulted from the performance of similar or identical operations.

The grouping module may be configured to group sets of session data representing certain states of one or more communication sessions. The grouping module may allow a user to group sets of session data according to the preference of the user or in some embodiments the grouping module may automatically group the sets of session data. The grouping of sets of session data may for example be based on one or more similar attributes of the saved states contextual information e.g. timing or location information included in the session data or similar operations or interactions performed that resulted in the states. The grouping module may also be configured to label each group of session data. Labels may be provided or edited by a user or may be automatically determined when grouping the sets of session data.

The personalization module may be configured to provide personalization services to users of the scratchpad application . The personalization services may include personalized recommendations or personalized search results. As such the personalization module may work in conjunction with the navigation module and the recommendation module to provide such personalized services. The personalization services provided by the personalization module may take into account the typical process flow of a user determined by the analysis module . The personalization services provided by the personalization module may also be based on states of communication sessions saved by the user using the scratchpad application .

As shown a communication session may be established between the first client device and the application server . In some embodiments the user may be instructed to log in or otherwise authenticate his identity as part of establishing the communication session. The communication session may comprise multiple data exchanges over a network e.g. communication network including the transmission of a plurality of requests by the first client device received by the application server . The application server may in turn transmit a plurality of responses to the first client device in response to the aforementioned plurality of requests. During the course of the communication session with the first client device the application server may select a certain state of the communication to be stored for later recall. The selection of the state may be performed automatically in anticipation of an operation or a set of operations associated with the state being repeated consistent with some embodiments. Alternatively the user utilizing one of several possible I O devices with the first client device may signal the application server through appropriate user input to save the selected state of the communication session.

Upon selecting the state of the communication session the application server may store session data representative of the state of the data session in a session data repository e.g. database or a machine readable medium of the client device . Further the application server may generate a scratchpad interface that includes a visual representation of the state of the communication session represented by the session data. The application server may then transmit instructions to the first client device that causes the client device to display the scratchpad interface.

The first client device may present the scratchpad interface in conjunction with other content involved in the continued execution of the communication session. In addition to providing a visual representation of the state of the communication session the scratchpad interface presented on the first client device may allow the user to return to the state of the communication session through selection of the visual representation. As shown the application server may receive the user selection of the session data.

In response to receiving the user selection the application server may retrieve the session data from the session data repository. The application server may then provide instructions to the first client device that cause the first client device to recall and return to the state of the communication session previously captured in response to the user input. In this manner the user may revisit the prior state of the communication session.

As illustrated in the communication session between the first client device and the application server may subsequently be terminated. Consistent with some embodiments in response to terminating the communication session the application server may remove or delete the session data stored in the data session repository at which point the session data may no longer be available for display in the scratchpad interface during subsequent communication sessions.

As shown in a communication session is established between the second client device and the application server . In some embodiments the user may be instructed to log in or otherwise authenticate his identity as part of establishing the communication session. This authentication may provide the application server with a linking between the first client device and second client device and may provide the user with access to the session data on the second client device which was saved during the communication session with the first client device. Further as part of establishing the communication session the application server may provide the second client device with instructions to present the scratchpad interface discussed in .

Utilizing an I O device of the second client device the user may select the visual representation of the previously saved state of the communication session discussed in displayed in the scratchpad interface. The user selection is then transmitted by the second client device and received by the application server . In response to receiving the user selection the application server may retrieve the session data from the session data repository e.g. databases and transmit instructions to the second client device that cause the second client device to present the state of the communication session e.g. originating on the first client device represented by the session data.

As shown each of the elements and may include information e.g. a description or content e.g. a corresponding image associated with each state of the communication session. Further the elements and displayed on the scratchpad interface may be grouped according to the methodologies discussed herein. For example as shown the elements and are displayed within group based on each of the states corresponding to the elements and being arrived at from the search query for sunglasses. As such the group is appropriately titled sunglasses by the grouping module .

The scratchpad interface may further include tab which may be used to hide or expand the scratchpad interface . In some embodiments the scratchpad interface may be hidden or expanded via a touch gesture swipe to the left or right of the display of the client device . The tab may also be used to move the location of the scratchpad interface to the top bottom or left of the display.

The elements and displayed on the scratchpad interface may also be displayed within group based on each of the states corresponding to the elements and being arrived at from the search query for bike helmets. As such the group is appropriately titled bike helmets by the grouping module . The grouping and labeling of the elements and within the group may be performed by the grouping module consistent with the methodologies discussed herein.

At operation a communication session may be established between the client device and the application server . The communication session may include multiple data exchanges including a plurality of requests received from the client device and a plurality of responses transmitted by the application server in response to the requests. For example a user of the client device may transmit a keyword search request for products listed for sale using the marketplace application . In turn the application server may respond with a number of search results for products matching the user s keyword search request. At operation the user input module may receive user input from the client device requesting that a particular state of the communication session be saved for later access. In some embodiments the user input may be a touch gesture received on a multi touch sensing surface of the client device . The touch gesture may for example be a tap a double tap a long press a pan a flick a two finger tap a pinch open or the like.

At operation the state module may in response to the receiving the user input cause session data representative of the state of the communication session to be temporarily stored for a predetermined amount of time. The session data may be stored in the database or in some embodiments in a machine readable medium of the client device for at least a period of time e.g. until an expiration time period has passed . Following the example from above upon receiving the search results for products matching the user s keyword search request the user may for example double tap the search results displayed on a touchscreen of the client device . This user input may then be provided to the user input module and in response the state module may capture and temporarily store the search results as session data in the database .

At operation the user interface module may generate a scratchpad interface including a visual representation of the state of the communication session represented by the session data. The scratchpad interface may present the session data e.g. representing the state of the communication session in a manner such that the user may select a particular set of session data and in turn the state of the communication session represented by the session data may be restored. The scratchpad interface may further allow a user to compare sets of session data and certain items contained therein. Following the example above the user interface module may generate a scratchpad interface that includes a textual detail of a selection of the search results.

At operation the user interface module may provide instructions to the client device which cause the device to present the scratchpad interface. The scratchpad interface may be displayed in conjunction with other content related to the communication session consistent with some embodiments. Consistent with some embodiments the visual representation of the session data may include a link or other interactive element that when activated through user input causes the client device to return to the state of the communication session represented by the session data. As illustrated in the method may include optional operations and . At operation a selection of session data e.g. a hyperlink made by the user may be received by the user input module . In response to the user selection e.g. activating the hyperlink the state of the communication session represented by the session data may be restored at operation . Following the example from above the scratchpad presented on the client device may include a hyperlink which when selected by the user causes the client device to return to the original search query results page.

At operation the user input module may receive an additional user input to save an additional state of the communication session that is distinct from the state represented by the session data stored at operation of method . The user input may be received in accordance with the methodologies discussed above in reference to method . In response to receipt of the user input the state module may cause additional session data representative of the additional state of the communication session to be temporarily stored at operation . The additional session data may be temporarily stored in the database or in some embodiments in a machine readable medium of the client device . The additional session data may be stored until an expiration time period has passed. At operation the user interface module may transmit instructions to the client device that cause the scratchpad interface to be updated to include visual representations of the additional session data.

Following the example presented in reference to the user may continue the communication session on the client device with the application server and in doing so perform an additional keyword search for another product. Upon receiving the search results at the client device from the application server the user may save the additional state of the communication session by again double tapping the search results. In response to the user input the state module may cause session data representative of the additional search results to be temporarily saved. Further the scratchpad interface may by updated by the user input module to include the additional search results.

Consistent with some embodiments the state module may cause session data to be temporarily stored in the database until an expiration time period has elapsed. At operation the state module may determine that the expiration time period has elapsed. Consistent with some embodiments the expiration time period may be the duration of the communication session and in such embodiments the operation comprises determining that the communication session has terminated. In some embodiments the expiration time period may be a default value or a value set by a user.

At operation the state module may cause the stored session data to be deleted in response to determining that the expiration time period has elapsed. In some embodiments if the client device is still engaged in a communication session the user interface module may at operation transmit instructions to the client device that cause the client device to refresh the scratchpad interface. Upon being refreshed the scratchpad interface will no longer include visual representations of the session data for which the expiration time period has elapsed and in turn the user may no longer return to the state of the communication session represented by the expired session data.

At operation the analysis module may access historical session data of a subject user. The historical session data pertains to previous communication sessions between various client devices of the subject user and the application server . From the historical session data the analysis module may determine a typical process flow of the subject user at operation . The typical process flow is a sequence of operations regularly performed by the subject user to achieve a particular result. For example a typical process flow of the subject user for purchasing items from a network based marketplace also referred to as a checkout flow may include performing a search query reviewing at least three results performing a more refined search query reviewing at least one additional result adding at least one item to an electronic shopping cart and completing a purchase of the at least one item. It shall be appreciated that the operations and may not be performed in some embodiments.

At operation the application server may establish a communication session with the client device being operated by the client user. Upon initiating the session with the application server the subject user may be prompted to login or otherwise authenticate his identity so as to provide the application server with a linking of the subject user to the historical session data and the typical process flow learned at operation . At operation the analysis module may determine that the communication session involves the typical process flow of the user. This determination may be based on the operations performed by the user coinciding with the operations of the typical process flow. In some embodiments the determination may be based on contextual information provided by the client device to the application server .

Given the knowledge of the operations regularly performed by the subject user and the order in which they are performed the analysis module may be able to anticipate the operations the subject user will perform including those that are repeated. In this manner the analysis module may identify a particular operation that is likely to be repeated based on the typical process flow of the subject user at operation . Consistent with some embodiments the identification of the particular operation may be based on inefficiencies in the typical process flow that arise from the user routinely returning to a previous operation in the sequence of operations comprising the typical process flow. In some embodiments the identification of the particular operation may be based on an amount of time spent in a certain state which given the typical process flow of the subject user may indicate that the subject user is likely to return to that state e.g. by repeating the operations that lead to the state .

At operation the state module may cause session data representative of the state of the communication session to be stored for a predetermined amount of time. The session data may be stored in the database or in some embodiments in a machine readable medium of the client device . At operation the user interface module may generate a scratchpad interface that includes a visual representation of the state of the communication session represented by the session data in accordance with the methodologies discussed herein. At operation the user interface module may provide instructions to the client device that cause the client device to present the scratchpad interface.

At operation the grouping module may access multiple sets of session data representative of a plurality of states of a communication session. The multiple sets of session data may correspond to states of the communication session saved by a user or automatically by the scratchpad application . At operation the grouping module may group the plurality of states according to similarities amongst each of the states. The grouping may be performed in response to user input or automatically without user intervention. The grouping may for example be based on a similar operation or set of operations performed that lead to the states states being part of a typical process flow or common attributes in the session data representing the states.

At operation the grouping module may assign a label to each group of states. The label may be based on user input or may be determined automatically based on the grouping. For example in instances in which the states are grouped based on a common attribute the grouping module may assign a label to the group using the common attribute. At operation the user interface module may provide instructions to the client device which cause the device to present a scratchpad interface with visual representations of the multiple sets of session data presented within the groupings determined at operation .

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a FPGA or an ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware modules . In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors with these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. APIs .

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product for example a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier for example in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus for example a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a FPGA or an ASIC .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that both hardware and software architectures merit consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes one or more input output I O devices a location component a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device . The I O devices may for example include a keyboard a mouse a keypad a multi touch surface e.g. a touchscreen or track pad a microphone a camera and the like.

The location component may be used for determining a location of the computer system . In some embodiments the location component may correspond to a GPS transceiver that may make use of the network interface device to communicate GPS signals with a GPS satellite. The location component may also be configured to determine a location of the computer system by using an internet protocol IP address lookup or by triangulating a position based on nearby mobile communications towers. The location component may be further configured to store a user defined location in main memory or static memory . In some embodiments a mobile location enabled application may work in conjunction with the location component and the network interface device to transmit the location of the computer system to an application server or third party server for the purpose of identifying the location of a user operating the computer system .

In some embodiments the network interface device may correspond to a transceiver and antenna. The transceiver may be configured to both transmit and receive cellular network signals wireless data signals or other types of signals via the antenna depending on the nature of the computer system .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of data structures and instructions e.g. software embodying or used by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system with the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

Consistent with some embodiments the instructions may relate to the operations of an operating system OS . Further the instructions may relate to operations performed by applications commonly known as apps consistent with some embodiments. One example of such an application is a mobile browser application that displays content such as a web page or a user interface using a browser.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more data structures or instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions e.g. instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures used by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

Furthermore the tangible machine readable medium is non transitory in that it does not embody a propagating signal. However labeling the tangible machine readable medium as non transitory should not be construed to mean that the medium is incapable of movement the medium should be considered as being transportable from one real world location to another. Additionally since the machine readable medium is tangible the medium may be considered to be a machine readable device.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium. The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a LAN a WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

Although the embodiments of the present invention have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader scope of the inventive subject matter. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be used and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

All publications patents and patent documents referred to in this document are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety as though individually incorporated by reference. In the event of inconsistent usages between this document and those documents so incorporated by reference the usage in the incorporated references should be considered supplementary to that of this document for irreconcilable inconsistencies the usage in this document controls.

In this document the terms a or an are used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one independent of any other instances or usages of at least one or one or more. In this document the term or is used to refer to a nonexclusive or such that A or B includes A but not B B but not A and A and B unless otherwise indicated. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein. Also in the following claims the terms including and comprising are open ended that is a system device article or process that includes elements in addition to those listed after such a term in a claim are still deemed to fall within the scope of that claim. Moreover in the following claims the terms first second and third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

