---

title: System, method, and apparatus for incorporating a centralized self organizing network (SON) in a network
abstract: In one example embodiment, a Self Organizing Network (SON) element is provided to communicate with at least one Long-Term Evolution (LTE) wireless network and at least one transport communication network. The SON element is operative to obtain information that relates to updated Neighbor Lists from a plurality of enodeBs (eNBs) belonging to the at least one LTE wireless network, and to convey information that relates to the updated Neighbor Lists obtained, to at least one managing entity belonging to the transport communication network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09621429&OS=09621429&RS=09621429
owner: CISCO TECHNOLOGY, INC.
number: 09621429
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140620
---
The present disclosure relates to methods and systems for optimizing operation of cellular networks and more specifically to a method and device that enable coordination of operations carried out by various devices belonging to LTE type cellular networks.

In Long Term Evolution LTE networks evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access e UTRA is the air interface of 3GPP s Long Term Evolution LTE upgrade path for mobile networks. It is a radio access network standard that enables transfer of high data rates lower latency and is optimized for packet data. Wireless data usage has been increasing significantly over the last few years and is expected to further increase due to the increased offering and demand of services and content on the move and the continued reduction of costs for the final user. This increase is expected to require not only faster networks and radio interfaces but also high cost efficiency. Thus the 3GPP consortium has set the requirements for a radio interface evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network EUTRAN and core network evolution that would fulfill this need.

The disclosure may be summarized by referring to the appended claims. It is an object of the present disclosure to provide a method for integrating a centralized Self Organizing Network cSON apparatus in a Long Term Evolution LTE network to provide a flexible and self organizing transport network for such an LTE network. It is another object of the present disclosure to provide an apparatus and a method for optimizing combined operation of an LTE cellular network and a transport network containing multiple vendors equipment. Other objects of the disclosure will become apparent as the description of the disclosure proceeds.

According to a first embodiment there is provided a Self Organizing Network SON element e.g. a computing platform operative to communicate with at least one Long Term Evolution LTE wireless network and at least one transport communication network and wherein the SON element is operative to obtain information that relates to dynamically updated Neighbor Lists from a plurality of enodeBs eNBs belonging to the at least one LTE wireless network and to convey information that relates to the dynamically updated Neighbor Lists obtained to at least one managing entity belonging to the transport communication network.

According to another embodiment the information that relates to the dynamically updated Neighbor Lists is obtained from at least one managing entity belonging to an eNBs Operations Support System OSS .

In accordance with another embodiment the information that relates to the dynamically updated Neighbor Lists is conveyed to at least one routing element that belongs to the transport communication network.

By yet another embodiment the at least one routing element is a Cell Site Gateway CSG . According to still another embodiment the Self Organizing Network SON element is adapted to operate with an Multiprotocol Label Switching MPLS Virtual Private Network VPN transport system connecting the LTE access network components.

In accordance with another aspect there is provided a method for enabling updates of routing information at routing elements belonging to a transport communication network the updates result from dynamic changes occurring in neighboring relationships of at least one enodeBs eNBs belonging to at least one LTE wireless network and one or more of its neighbors the method comprises 

providing a SON element operative to communicate with the at least one LTE wireless network and with the transport communication network receiving at the SON element information that relates to a dynamically updated Neighbor Lists from the at least one eNB and b at least one routing element associated with the at least one eNB and conveying by the SON element to the at least one routing element information that relates to the dynamically updated Neighbor Lists of the at least one eNB.

According to another embodiment of this aspect the method further comprises the steps of at least one eNB receiving results of measurements carried out by at least one user equipment UE associated with the at least one eNB e.g. serviced by that eNB and updating at the least one eNB its Neighbor list NL according to the information thus received and providing information to the SON element about changes occurred in the at least one eNB by a management entity belonging to the at least one LTE wireless network.

By yet another embodiment the method further comprises a step of creating an MPLS virtual private network VPN that comprises a plurality of eNBs and is based upon current neighboring relationships between the plurality of eNBs. According to still another embodiment the method provided further comprises a step of dynamically adding and or removing at least one eNB to from the group of the plurality of eNBs comprised in the MPLS VPN wherein the addition and or removal is based upon NL related information received from the SON element.

According to another embodiment the method further comprises a step of establishing clusters each containing a number of eNBs without having information at the time when the VPN has been established as to which of the plurality of eNBs comprised in the MPLS VPN would be grouped together in a cluster.

In accordance with another embodiment there is provided a computer program product encoding a computer program stored on a non transitory computer readable storage medium for executing a set of instructions by a computer system comprising one or more computer processors for carrying out the method of the present disclosure.

Implementation of the device and method of the present disclosure involves performing or completing selected tasks or steps manually automatically or a combination thereof. Moreover according to actual instrumentation and equipment of preferred embodiments of the method and system implementing the present disclosure several selected steps could be implemented by hardware or by software on any operating system of any firmware or a combination thereof. For example as hardware selected steps of the disclosure could be implemented by software embedded on chip or an ASIC and be part of that hardware.

As software selected steps of the disclosure could be implemented as a plurality of software instructions being executed by a computer using any suitable operating system. In any case selected steps of the method and system of the disclosure could be described as being performed by a data processor such as a computing platform for executing a plurality of instructions.

For purposes of illustrating the techniques of the present disclosure it is important to understand the communications that may be traversing the system shown in . The following foundational information may be viewed as a basis from which the present disclosure may be properly explained. Such information is offered earnestly for purposes of explanation only and accordingly should not be construed in any way to limit the broad scope of the present disclosure and its potential applications.

In this disclosure the term comprising is intended to have an open ended meaning so that when a first element is stated as comprising a second element the first element may also include one or more other elements that are not necessarily identified or described herein or recited in the claims. In the following description for the purposes of explanation certain embodiments and numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It should be apparent however that the disclosure is not limited in its application to the details of construction and the arrangement of the components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the drawings and that the present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details.

The disclosure relates to an embodiment in a Long Term Evolution LTE network in which the radio access network is an evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network EUTRAN consisting only of eNodeBs eNBs on the network side. The eNB performs in UTRAN tasks that are similar to those performed by the nodeBs and by the Radio Network Controller RNC together in a 3Generation cellular communications network. The aim of this simplification is to reduce the latency of all radio interface operations. As shown in the eNBs are connected to other eNBs via X2 interfaces and they connect to the packet switched core network the LTE Evolved Packet Core EPC network via respective S1 interfaces. An example of the E UTRAN architecture is illustrated in . As may be seen from this Figure the transport architecture includes S1 and X2 interfaces. Obviously the number of S1 interfaces is related to the number of the eNBs as each eNB has at least one S1 connection to a node of the LTE Evolved Packet Core EPC such as a Mobility Management Entity MME or a Serving Gateway SGW . The number of X2 interfaces on the other hand increases with the number of neighbor relations that are established per each eNB since each eNB should be connected to all or at least several of its neighboring eNBs.

Nodes such as the Mobility Management Entity MME or the Serving Gateway SGW shown in are core nodes as shown in .

In this example the access nodes include Cell Site Gateways CSGs . One or more eNodeBs may be connected to each Cell Site Gateway. As an example shows two eNodeBs connected to one Cell Site Gateway . Multiple Cell Site Gateways may be connected to each aggregation node . The aggregation nodes are connected to the core network nodes such as the Mobility Management Entity or Serving Gateway in the Evolved Packet Core. One issue with this solution is the problem of having a Multi Vendor LTE network environment that is with nodes provided by different vendors.

In this example Multiprotocol Label Switching MPLS is used to define a virtual private network VPN for the transport between the eNodeBs and the core network nodes. Thus the network operates with an MPLS VPN transport system connecting the LTE UTRAN components. The MPLS network may have any suitable topology such as a star a ring a hub and spoke or a hybrid topology. The links may be wireless for example using microwave frequencies or over optical fiber as examples.

Route Reflectors are provided for Interior Border Gateway Protocol iBGP peering in the virtual private network.

In this illustrative embodiment the routing for the Virtual Private Network is managed by programmable route reflectors specifically one or more programmable route reflector in the access network one or more programmable route reflector in the aggregation network and one or more programmable route reflector in the core network . In this illustrative embodiment the programmable route reflectors are virtual route reflectors meaning that they are logically located as shown in but can be physically located at any convenient location.

The Self Organizing Network SON is an automation technology designed to make the planning configuration management optimization and healing of mobile radio access networks simpler and faster. SON functionality and behavior has been defined and specified in generally accepted mobile industry recommendations produced by organizations such as 3GPP 3rd Generation Partnership Project and the NGMN Next Generation Mobile Networks .

Various technologies are making use of SON features among which are WiFi femto cells Long Term Evolution LTE as well as older radio access technologies such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS . Newly added base stations should be self configured in line with a plug and play paradigm while all operational base stations will regularly self optimize parameters and algorithmic behavior in response to observed network performance and radio conditions.

The present disclosure describes a SON element with a new functionality namely to enable a SON element to operate as a mediation element between an LTE wireless network and a transport network such as an MPLS network.

RAN cell sites are places of transformation between mobile radio and mobile transport networks. Cost effective RAN backhaul requires the ability to simultaneously aggregate the transport of traffic from both legacy and new generation radios for specific and multiple transport options available at the cell site. In order to overcome this problem certain devices were developed to optimize this radio to transport transformation and provide scalable interfaces for existing radios and transport networks as well as the new generation of 4G radios microwave and IP RAN transport networks. However this problem becomes much more complex when the need arises to operate in a Multi Vendor LTE network environment. When operating in such an environment several problems arise. First the relations between neighboring eNBs may be dynamically updated at unknown times as part of the process of managing Neighbor Relations e.g. by Automatic Neighbor Relation ANR managing entity such as a distributed SON dSON . Consequently X2 interfaces defined between each pairs of neighboring eNBs should follow that dynamic update and the transport network in turn should support any combination of X2 topology even though the dynamically updated relations between eNBs at the data control planes are not known to the entity managing the transport network.

Specifically the device of which the SON element is an example includes a data processing and control module and a communications module . The data processing and control module includes at least one processor and at least one memory . One function of the memory is to store instructions in the form of a computer program for causing the processor to perform functions as described herein.

The communications module manages communications between the device and other devices and includes for example a network interface for connecting the device to the relevant network. For example in the case of the SON element the network interface manages Internet Protocol IP connectivity to other network nodes.

At the start of the method the initial installation of the eNodeB has taken place. Thus the eNodeB has established a connection with the Evolved Packet Core core network of the cellular communications network and the eNodeB is able to establish connections with user equipment devices UEs . At this point the initial provisioning of the Virtual Private Network has taken place. Thus the S1 Route Targets have been provisioned so that the eNodeB is able to communicate through the associated Cell Site Gateway with the SON element and or the Operations Support System OSS of the LTE network.

In step according to this example signal strength measurements are made by the user equipment devices connected to the eNodeB and are sent to the eNB via the air interface.

Then in step the eNB creates or updates its own neighbor list NL according to the information received. The eNB has an Automatic Neighbor Relation ANR function for this purpose. In general terms as is known the eNB may include in its neighbor list the other eNBs that can be detected by the UEs that report to it.

The eNB may for example notify the Mobility Management Entity MME of the LTE network of its neighbor list for the purposes of managing handovers. In any event the Operations Support System OSS becomes aware of the neighbor list of the eNB .

In step the OSS informs the SON element of the neighbor list of the eNB . More generally the OSS informs the SON element over the relevant 3GPP interface of any newly created neighbor lists and of any updates occurring in any of the eNBs. Thus the OSS may inform the SON element of the IP address of each eNodeB appearing on a respective neighbor list. The OSS may also inform the SON element of the routing entity for example the respective Cell Site Gateway which is associated with the eNB The information may be passed from the OSS to the SON element on a periodical basis or alternatively as soon as the information is received at the OSS.

It should also be noted that in some embodiments the SON element is able to create or modify neighbor lists of eNodeBs. For example the SON element may be aware of additional information that means that an eNB that appears in measurement reports is not a suitable handover target and therefore should not appear in a neighbor list and or may be aware of another eNB that does not appear in any measurement reports currently received by an eNB but that is a suitable handover target and therefore should appear in a neighbor list.

In step of the method shown in the SON element sends the eNB s NL or the updates thereof to the MPLS transport system. Based on that information in step the MPLS system is now able to update the X2 VPN topology to reflect any changes that have occurred in the eNBs of the LTE network so that the various routing entities e.g. the CSGs have the proper updated information regarding the eNBs that are associated therewith and their neighbor relationships.

There are a number of ways to convey the information from the CSON to the CSGs all of which should be considered as being encompassed by the present disclosure. For example each CSG will receive information only regarding their associated eNBs where an update in their NL has occurred. The information regarding such an eNB may comprise its full updated NL or only the change that has occurred in its NL with respect to the currently known information at the CSG for that eNB. The information may be delivered from the CSON to a managing entity that belongs to the transport network and then distributed to the relevant CSGs or directly from the CSON to the relevant CSGs. The information may be transmitted by the CSON in response to receiving an update on a change in a neighboring list or be transmitted every pre defined period of time.

In certain embodiments a default gateway associated with the eNB has a role in transferring the information from the CSON to the CSGs. For example the default gateway associated with the eNB may be used to identify directly the Cell Site Gateway or Access Provider Edge router to which the SON element has to relay the neighbor list. In this case various interface options and mechanisms exist that can be used to distribute the required information such as Telnet or Secure Shell SSH with a programmable logic in the Cell Site Gateway a Software Defined Network protocol such as the Network Configuration Protocol NETCONF using the Yang language or SOAP or REST or the proprietary One Platform Kit onePK toolkit from Cisco where the SON element or a managing entity for example in the form of a software defined network route reflector hierarchy concludes the VPN routing table RT changes that are required.

In another example programmable route reflectors are used. In this case the eNB exports to the SON element information about its associated default gateway and the SON element informs the route reflectors of this together with the eNB ID and its NL. The relevant route reflector constructs the routing table and marks the VPN routes required by the neighbour list. The CSG then imports the routing table from its associated default gateway.

Thus in both of the above examples the default gateway associated with the eNB is used to correlate the updated neighbor list with the Provider Edge router or CSG to which it must be provided.

Thus in the embodiment illustrated in the SON element which is a centralized SON element in this embodiment receives for each eNodeB the IP addresses of the other eNodeBs appearing in that eNodeB s neighbor list and the information about that eNodeB s default gateway that is the Cell Site Gateway through which it is connected to the network . If there have been any changes in the neighbour list the SON element updates the programmable virtual route reflector in the core network . These steps are repeated periodically or when there is any change in any neighbor list.

The programmable virtual route reflector in the core network receives information from the SON element relating to changes in the neighbor list. These changes in the neighbour list are translated into appropriate route targets in order to establish the required X2 routing topology in the VPN so that each eNodeB has the intended X2 connection to the other eNodeBs that appear in its neighbor list.

That is the programmable virtual route reflector in the core network computes and updates the routes that have to be reflected towards a Cell Site Gateway based on any changes to the neighbour list of an eNodeB associated with that CSG. It is able to mark the routes with the correct CSG of any eNodeB newly added to the neighbour list because it has received that information from the SON element . The programmable virtual route reflector in the core network is a Route Reflector for both VPN and 3107 BGP and so it is also able to update the Outbound route filter for the 3107 next hops towards the relevant CSG.

This updating is therefore passed to the programmable virtual route reflector in the aggregation network . In this illustrative embodiment the programmable virtual route reflector in the aggregation network knows where the required routes originate and also knows from the VPN routing what communication is required between different access networks and hence it can define the required outbound route filters. This allows a more granular BGP RFC 3107 route planning to be achieved.

The programmable virtual route reflector in the access network can cover the VPN to 3107 ORF correlation for each CSG. By using Route Target constraints the virtual RR updates the 3107 Outbound Route Filters based on the next hops towards the relevant CSG in the VPN.

Thus the CSG imports the VPN routing table for each eNodeB that is connected to it. When there is more than one eNodeB connected to the CSG the eNodeBs will have different neighbour lists and will therefore require different routing tables. The routing table is defined algorithmically from the IP interface of the CSG to the eNodeB. The routing table defines the VPN routes that match the Neighbor List. The algorithms used for the routing tables in the CSG are the same as those in the route reflectors .

Thus once the centralised SON system determines the required Neighbor List this is translated into a set of associated VPN Route Targets for the Virtual Routing and Forwarding in the relevant CSG. The eNB X2 IP addresses are mapped algorithmically into VPN Route Targets. Then a Border Gateway Protocol Routing Table Constrained procedure takes place to populate the VPN routing table accordingly. If these VPN routes include Unified MPLS next hops that are not currently available then the RFC 3107 Border Gateway Protocol has to be updated.

There is therefore disclosed a transport network that is able to adapt under real time or near real time conditions the dynamically updated routing tables in the Cell Site Gateways CSG according to variable eNB neighbor topology.

Furthermore by adopting the solution provided by the present disclosure the transport network is able to optimally support the LTE S1 and X2 interfaces without imposing any interdependencies between transport and radio planning or any other inefficiencies in either one of the network layers.

Also the solution provided by the present disclosure enables the operator to set up a VPN across a vast number of eNB sites e.g. at the order of 100 000 sites while allowing small groups clusters of nodes e.g. each comprising about 20 nodes to communicate without knowing which nodes will be grouped together at the time when the VPN is provisioned.

It is appreciated that certain features of the disclosure which are for clarity described in the context of separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features of the disclosure which are for brevity described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided separately or in any suitable subcombination. Although the disclosure has been described in conjunction with specific embodiments thereof it is evident that many alternatives modifications and variations will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly it is intended to embrace all such alternatives modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and broad scope of the appended claims.

