---

title: Field level data protection for cloud services using asymmetric cryptography
abstract: Systems, apparatuses, and methods for providing data security for data that is stored in a cloud-level platform. In one embodiment, each session is associated with specific session “keys” for use in encrypting and decrypting data. The session specific keys are generated by a client application and the client public key of a public/private key pair is provided to the cloud platform as part of a user authentication process. If the user is properly authenticated, then the platform creates its own set of keys and sends the server public key of a public/private key pair to the client. When the client requests a data record or document, the platform can determine if the user is authorized to have access to the entire data record or document or only to certain fields or portions of the record or document. Based on that determination, the platform may selectively encrypt certain fields or portions of the record or document with the client public key.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09369443&OS=09369443&RS=09369443
owner: NetSuite Inc.
number: 09369443
owner_city: San Mateo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140908
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 879 428 entitled Field Level Data Protection for Cloud Services Using Asymmetric Cryptography filed Sep. 18 2013 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety including the Appendix for all purposes.

Modern computer networks incorporate layers of virtualization so that physically remote computers and computer components can be allocated to a particular task and then reallocated when the task is done. Users sometimes speak in terms of computing clouds because of the way groups of computers and computing components can form and split responsive to user demand and because users often never see the computing hardware that ultimately provides the computing services. More recently different types of computing clouds and cloud services have begun emerging.

For the purposes of this description cloud services may be divided broadly into low level services and high level services. Low level cloud services sometimes called raw or commodity services typically provide little more than virtual versions of a newly purchased physical computer system virtual disk storage space virtual processing power an operating system and perhaps a database such as an RDBMS. In contrast high or higher level cloud services typically focus on one or more well defined end user applications such as business oriented applications. Some high level cloud services provide an ability to customize and or extend the functionality of one or more of the end user applications they provide however high level cloud services typically do not provide direct access to low level computing functions.

The ability of business users to access crucial business information has been greatly enhanced by the proliferation of IP based networking together with advances in object oriented Web based programming and browser technology. Using these advances systems have been developed that permit web based access to business information systems thereby allowing a user with a browser and an Internet or intranet connection to view enter or modify the required business information. For example substantial efforts have been directed to Enterprise Resource Planning ERP systems that integrate the capabilities of several historically separate business computing systems into a common system with a view toward streamlining business processes and increasing efficiencies on a business wide level. By way of example the capabilities or modules of an ERP system can include accounting order processing time and billing inventory management employee management payroll human resources management and employee calendaring and collaboration as well as reporting and analysis capabilities relating to these functions.

In a related movement substantial efforts have also been directed to integrated Customer Relationship Management CRM systems with a view toward obtaining a better understanding of customers enhancing service to existing customers and acquiring new profitable customers. By way of example the capabilities or modules of a CRM system can include sales force automation SFA marketing automation contact list call center support and web based customer support as well as reporting and analysis capabilities relating to these functions. With differing levels of overlap with ERP CRM initiatives and with each other substantial efforts have also been directed toward development of increasingly integrated partner and vendor management systems web store eCommerce systems product lifecycle management PLM systems and supply chain management SCM systems.

Such business systems and applications often perform functions that involve the storage access and processing of confidential or proprietary data information or documents. Such data may include non public revenue projections sales data product roadmaps long range planning documents etc. The confidential data may also include information about financial transactions or employees that is expected to remain private such as medical or other personal information. The release or other use of such information may be controlled by specific policies regulations agreements or laws. For example the use of certain types of private medical data e.g. Protected Health Information PHI may be governed by one or more Federal laws such as HIPAA the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act . HIPAA and its associated regulations imposes certain security requirements on personal medical data that is provided to third parties such as requiring that it be encrypted and or otherwise protected when being transmitted to another party. Similarly data regarding certain types of financial transactions may be required to be or at least is desired to be encrypted when provided to another party over a communications network.

The requirement that certain data be encrypted prior to transmission to another party introduces a potential problem for users of cloud based data processing platforms and systems. Such platforms systems typically store each tenant s data in one or more data storage elements such as a database. The data contained within the database may be encrypted in accordance with an encryption process that is specific to the database and its data management system. Databases typically use AES and symmetric key encryption algorithms. Database decryption generally happens at the point the data is read from the storage device but it is technically possible to transmit the encrypted data as it exists on the storage device and have the receiver of the transmission decrypt it. In most cases when a remote user desires to access data contained in the database the data is typically decrypted in accordance with the data base management system and prepared for transmission to the user over a communications network e.g. the Internet .

The decrypted data may then be re encrypted using a different process prior to such transmission based on one or more security protocols e.g. using HTTPS and SSL secure socket layer or another type of data security protocol . For example SSL may use X.509 certificates and hence a form of asymmetric cryptography to authenticate the counterparty with whom they are communicating and to exchange a symmetric key. This session key is then used to encrypt data flowing between the parties. When using such a security protocol the encryption and decryption processes are applied to entire records or documents. This means that after transmission over the communications network the recipient will have access to the entire record or document.

This type of data protection process can create a problem if the data or some of the data contained in a record or document is supposed to or required to remain confidential or protected such as data protected under the terms of HIPAA . This is because the end user may be given access to confidential data that is contained in a document or data record that they are not entitled to have access to and therefore should not be able to see. Further in some cases an end user may have authorization to view and alter certain protected data and in such situations they need to have a way to alter the data save it and then transfer it back securely to a server or database for storage.

Conventional approaches to providing data security enable protection of entire documents or sets of data but do not provide an effective means of preventing unauthorized access to specific sections of documents or fields of data. Embodiments of the invention are directed toward solving these and other problems individually and collectively.

The terms invention the invention this invention and the present invention as used herein are intended to refer broadly to all of the subject matter described in this document and to the claims. Statements containing these terms should be understood not to limit the subject matter described herein or to limit the meaning or scope of the claims. Embodiments of the invention covered by this patent are defined by the claims and not by this summary. This summary is a high level overview of various aspects of the invention and introduces some of the concepts that are further described in the Detailed Description section below. This summary is not intended to identify key or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used in isolation to determine the scope of the claimed subject matter. The subject matter should be understood by reference to appropriate portions of the entire specification of this patent to any or all drawings and to each claim.

Embodiments of the invention are directed to systems apparatuses and methods for providing data security for data that is stored in a cloud level platform and is provided to a user operating a remote client device. In one embodiment each session is associated with specific session keys for use in encrypting and decrypting data. The session specific keys are generated by a client application and the client public key of a public private key pair is provided to the cloud platform as part of a user authentication process. If the user is properly authenticated then the platform creates its own set of keys and sends the server public key of a public private key pair to the client. In another embodiment the client public keys may be previously stored on the platform and may be unique for each authorized user or shared by users with authorization to the same protected fields.

When the client requests a data record or document the platform can determine if the user is authorized to have access to the entire data record or document or if they are not authorized to access certain fields or portions of the record or document. Based on that determination the platform may selectively encrypt certain fields or portions of the record or document with the client public key so that those portions can be decrypted by the client and displayed to the user while encrypting other fields or portions of the record or document with a different data protection method so that the data contained in those fields or portions are not accessible by the client and thus remain protected and confidential. If the user is authorized to have access to certain confidential data then they may be permitted to edit the confidential data and then have the fields containing that data encrypted using the platform public key prior to transmission to the platform thereby enabling the platform to decrypt those fields and properly store the data in the appropriate data storage element such as a database .

One or more embodiments of the invention may utilize a form of asymmetric cryptography which refers to a cryptographic algorithm which requires two separate keys for encrypting and decrypting. Such algorithms or methods include but are not limited to RSA DH Diffie Hellman or other asymmetric cryptography methods or processes currently known or yet to be created.

In one embodiment the invention is directed to a method for protecting data transferred between a client device and a server where the method includes 

In another embodiment the invention is directed to an apparatus for implementing a process for protecting data transferred between a client device and a server where the apparatus includes 

Other objects and advantages of the present invention will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art upon review of the detailed description of the present invention and the included figures.

Note that the same numbers are used throughout the disclosure and figures to reference like components and features.

The subject matter of embodiments of the present invention is described here with specificity to meet statutory requirements but this description is not necessarily intended to limit the scope of the claims. The claimed subject matter may be embodied in other ways may include different elements or steps and may be used in conjunction with other existing or future technologies. This description should not be interpreted as implying any particular order or arrangement among or between various steps or elements except when the order of individual steps or arrangement of elements is explicitly described.

Embodiments of the invention will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and which show by way of illustration exemplary embodiments by which the invention may be practiced. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy the statutory requirements and convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art.

Among other things the present invention may be embodied in whole or in part as a system as one or more methods or as one or more devices. Embodiments of the invention may take the form of a hardware implemented embodiment a software implemented embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects. For example in some embodiments one or more of the operations functions processes or methods described herein may be implemented by one or more suitable processing elements such as a processor microprocessor CPU controller etc. that is part of a client device server network element or other form of computing device that are programmed with a set of executable instructions e.g. software instructions where the instructions may be stored in a suitable data storage element. In some embodiments one or more of the operations functions processes or methods described herein may be implemented by a specialized form of hardware such as a programmable gate array application specific integrated circuit ASIC or the like. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to systems apparatuses and methods for providing data security for data that is stored in a cloud level platform and is provided to a user operating a remote client device. In one embodiment each session is associated with specific session keys for use in encrypting and decrypting data. The session specific keys are generated by a client application and the client public key of a public private key pair is provided to the cloud platform as part of a user authentication process. If the user is properly authenticated then the platform creates its own set of keys and sends the server public key of a public private key pair to the client. When the client requests a data record or document the platform can determine if the user is authorized to have access to the entire data record or document or if they are not authorized to access certain fields or portions of the record or document. Based on that determination the platform may selectively encrypt certain fields or portions of the record or document with the client public key so that those portions can be decrypted by the client and displayed to the user while encrypting other fields or portions of the record or document with a different data protection method so that the data contained in those fields or portions are not accessible by the client and thus remain protected and confidential. If the user is authorized to have access to certain confidential data then they may be permitted to edit the confidential data and then have the fields containing that data encrypted using the platform public key prior to transmission to the platform thereby enabling the platform to decrypt those fields and properly store the data in the appropriate data storage element such as a database . In another embodiment the client public keys may be previously stored on the platform and may be unique for each authorized user or shared by users with authorization to the same protected fields.

One or more embodiments of the invention may utilize a form of asymmetric cryptography which refers to a cryptographic algorithm which requires two separate keys for encrypting and decrypting. Such algorithms or methods include but are not limited to RSA DH Diffie Hellman or other asymmetric cryptography methods or processes currently known or yet to be created.

In some embodiments the invention may be implemented in the context of a multi tenant cloud based environment typically used to develop and provide web services for end users. This exemplary implementation environment will be described with reference to . Note that embodiments of the invention may also be implemented in the context of other computing or operational environments or systems such as for an individual business data processing system a remote or on site data processing system other form of client server architecture other form of remote data storage etc. In some embodiments the inventive systems apparatuses and processes may be used to enable retrieval of data from a data storage element or database in a situation where certain portions or fields of the retrieved data contain confidential or proprietary information that some of those accessing the data are not authorized to view.

The distributed computing service platform may include multiple processing tiers including a user interface tier an application server tier and a data storage tier . The user interface tier may maintain multiple user interfaces including graphical user interfaces and or web based interfaces. The user interfaces may include a default user interface for the service to provide access to applications and data for a user or tenant of the service depicted as Service UI as well as one or more user interfaces that have been specialized in accordance with user specific requirements e.g. represented by Tenant A UI . . . Tenant Z UI and which may be accessed via one or more APIs . The default user interface may include components enabling a tenant to administer the tenant s participation in the functions and capabilities provided by the service platform such as accessing data causing the execution of specific data processing operations etc. Each processing tier shown in the figure may be implemented with a set of computers and or computer components including computer servers and processors and may perform various functions methods processes or operations as determined by the execution of a software application or set of instructions. The data storage tier may include one or more data stores which may include a Service Data store and one or more Tenant Data stores .

Each tenant data store may contain tenant specific data that is used as part of providing a range of tenant specific services or functions including but not limited to ERP CRM eCommerce Human Resources management medical dental insurance administration payroll etc. As noted some or all of this data may be confidential and or proprietary and therefore subject to one or more policies regulations or laws regarding its uses and transfer. Data stores may be implemented with any suitable data storage technology including structured query language SQL based relational database management systems RDBMS .

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention distributed computing service platform may be multi tenant and service platform may be operated by an entity in order to provide multiple tenants with a set of business related applications and functionality. These applications and functionality may include ones that a business uses to manage various aspects of its operations. For example the applications and functionality may include providing web based access to business information systems thereby allowing a user with a browser and an Internet or intranet connection to view enter process or modify certain types of business information.

As noted such business information systems may include an Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system that integrates the capabilities of several historically separate business computing systems into a common system with the intention of streamlining business processes and increasing efficiencies on a business wide level. By way of example the capabilities or modules of an ERP system may include accounting order processing time and billing inventory management employee management payroll and employee calendaring and collaboration as well as reporting and analysis capabilities relating to these functions. Another business information system that may be provided as part of a service platform is an integrated Customer Relationship Management CRM system which is designed to assist in obtaining a better understanding of customers enhance service to existing customers and assist in acquiring new and profitable customers. By way of example the capabilities or modules of a CRM system may include sales force automation SFA marketing automation contact list management call center support and web based customer support as well as reporting and analysis capabilities relating to these functions. In addition to ERP and CRM functions a business information system such as element of may also include one or more of an integrated partner and vendor management system eCommerce system e.g. a virtual storefront application or platform product lifecycle management PLM system Human Resources management system which may include medical dental insurance administration payroll etc. or supply chain management SCM system.

Note that both functional advantages and strategic advantages may be gained through the use of an integrated business system comprising ERP CRM and other business capabilities as for example where the integrated business system is integrated with a merchant s eCommerce platform and or web store. For example a customer searching for a particular product can be directed to a merchant s website and presented with a wide array of product and or services from the comfort of their home computer or even from their mobile phone. When a customer initiates an online sales transaction via a browser based interface the integrated business system can process the order update accounts receivable update inventory databases and other ERP based systems and can also automatically update strategic customer information databases and other CRM based systems. These modules and other applications and functionalities may advantageously be integrated and executed by a single code base accessing one or more integrated databases as necessary forming an integrated business management system or platform. As a further example a set of Human Resource HR Management related functions or processes can be provided by one or more applications installed on the services platform. These HR functions or processes may include payroll or administration of medical dental insurance or stock plans and may involve use and transmission of personal employee information such as social security numbers private medical data stock grants etc. .

The integrated business system shown in may be hosted on a distributed computing system made up of at least one but likely multiple servers. A server is a physical computer dedicated to run one or more software services intended to serve the needs of the users of other computers in data communication with the server for instance via a public network such as the Internet or a private intranet network. The server and the services it provides may be referred to as the host and the remote computers and the software applications running on the remote computers being served as clients. Depending on the computing service that a server offers it could be referred to as a database server file server mail server print server web server etc. A web server is a most often a combination of hardware and the software that helps deliver content commonly by hosting a website to client web browsers that access the web server via the Internet.

Rather than build such an integrated business system themselves a business may utilize systems provided by a third party. Such a third party may implement an integrated business system as described above in the context of a multi tenant platform wherein individual instantiations of a single comprehensive integrated business system are provided to a variety of tenants. A key advantage to such multi tenant platforms is the ability for each tenant to customize their instantiation of the integrated business system to that tenant s specific business needs. This may include implementing extensions to the functionality of existing functional application modules or introducing new functional capabilities in the form of added application modules. For example one extension or new functionality may be an embodiment of the inventive data security process described herein.

In such embodiments a portion or portions of the data or information stored in a field record or document for example may be restricted to being viewed by a subset of the users who can access the field record or document. This may occur for example because the data contained in that portion of a field record or document is personal confidential or proprietary and is subject to restrictions or controls. In such cases an embodiment of the invention permits control over the access viewing and editing of the protected portion or portions of the field record or document while permitting other users to access the remaining portion or portions. Note that in a complex system such instructions are typically arranged into modules with each such module performing a specific task process function or operation. The entire set of modules may be controlled or coordinated in their operation by an operating system OS or other form of organizational platform.

The application layer may include one or more application modules each having one or more sub modules . Each application module or sub module may correspond to a particular function method process or operation that is implemented by the module or sub module. Such function method process or operation may include those used to implement one or more aspects of the inventive system and methods such as the inventive data security and access control process one or more eCommerce platform functions the accessing of ERP CRM eCommerce or other data upon receiving a request for the data from a client the execution of specified data processing operations etc.

The application modules and or sub modules may include any suitable computer executable code or set of instructions e.g. as would be executed by a suitably programmed processor microprocessor or CPU such as computer executable code corresponding to a programming language. For example programming language source code may be compiled into computer executable code. Alternatively or in addition the programming language may be an interpreted programming language such as a scripting language. Each application server e.g. as represented by element of may include each application module. Alternatively different application servers may include different sets of application modules. Such sets may be disjoint or overlapping.

The data storage layer may include one or more data objects each having one or more data object components such as attributes and or behaviors. For example the data objects may correspond to tables of a relational database and the data object components may correspond to columns or fields of such tables. Alternatively or in addition the data objects may correspond to data records having fields and associated services. Alternatively or in addition the data objects may correspond to persistent instances of programmatic data objects such as structures and classes. Each data store in the data storage layer may include each data object. Alternatively different data stores may include different sets of data objects. Such sets may be disjoint or overlapping.

Note that the example data processing computing environments depicted in are not intended to be limiting examples. Alternatively or in addition computing environments in which an embodiment of the invention may be implemented include any suitable system that permits users to access and utilize data stored in a data storage element e.g. a memory or database that can be accessed remotely over a network. Although further examples below may reference the example computing environment depicted in it will be apparent to one of skill in the art that the examples may be adapted for alternate data processing computing devices systems and environments.

Note that in one embodiment the credentials data request and client public key are provided to the server platform as part of a unique communication session. Note further that as described herein the client public key may be obtained by the server or platform by other suitable means including but not limited to a a data storage element accessible by the server and storing one or more previously generated or previously communicated keys b generated by a suitable algorithm known to the client c selected from a list of keys in accordance with an agreed upon heuristic or rule set d reuse of a previously generated or provided key until the client sends a new one or a predetermined number of sessions or uses has occurred etc.

The server platform receives and processes the user s credentials and the client public key and determines if the user is authorized to access at least some of the data stored on the server platform steps and . If the user is authorized then the server platform processes the user s specific data request step . As part of processing the data request the server platform may determine which fields records or portions of the requested data or document that the user is authorized to view or access. For example the user may be authorized to access all of the requested data only certain fields or records of the requested data all but certain fields or records of the requested data only data reflecting information between certain dates etc. step . If the user is authorized to access or view all or a portion of the requested data then the server platform generates a key pair and provides the platform public key to the client application step . The server platform then accesses the requested data which may be a file record document etc. and prepares it for transmission to the user step . This may involve decrypting previously encrypted data that was protected when stored in a database etc. in accordance with a data security protocol that is part of the database or data storage element management system step . Note that in some embodiments a user s authorization to access specific data may be based on the user s name the user s role within an organization the user s location the date or other relevant characteristic.

Based on the user s authorization to see all or a portion of the requested data the server platform uses the client public key to encrypt all or a portion of the requested data step . Thus the server platform may selectively encrypt a data field or fields data record or records or all or portions of a document in accordance with the user s authorization to access to the data. For example the server platform may use the client public key to encrypt that part of the requested data that the user is authorized to view or access but use a different and confidential key to encrypt the remainder of the data. This permits the server platform to prevent the user from accessing confidential data that they are not authorized to access such as another person s social security number health condition medical test results etc. while allowing them to access other data in the requested set of data as that data is encrypted with the client public key and the user client has access to the corresponding key of the key pair . The server platform provides the encrypted and possibly associated unencrypted data to the user client over a suitable network step . Note that the network itself may use a form of encryption to ensure data security for the communications session such as SSL or a similar protocol but that this security protocol is applied to an entire set of data or elements of a message and not selectively to those portions of data that the user is authorized to view or not authorized to view in which case a security method is used that the user does not have access to for purposes of decrypting the protected data .

The user client receives the data and may use the client private key to decrypt the data or the portions of the data that they are authorized to access step . Note that if the user is entitled to view and access certain data fields they may be authorized to edit or modify the data in those fields step . In such a case the user may perform the desired edits and then save the data. Afterwards the data in those fields may be encrypted using the platform public key prior to transmission to the server platform over a suitable network e.g. the Internet or a combination of wired wireless networks step . Because the server platform is in possession of the corresponding platform private key the encrypted data may be decrypted and then undergo the normal security processes such as re encryption etc. to enable its storage in a database or other data storage element.

Embodiments of the invention described herein provide a system apparatus and method for enabling field level security or a similar aspect of a record or document to be applied to the transmission of data and a technique for limiting the view ability of these protected fields by an end user. As described herein in embodiments of the invention the encryption and decryption of data may occur at several points of a data transfer process. These points include database access communication session creation and transmission of data within the session and protection of a subset of the transmitted data.

Note that in general database encryption is a symmetric process where the encryption and decryption algorithms are the same and both are known by a database administrator. The administrator uses a password to encrypt the data before it is stored in the database. While the data resides in the database it remains in its encrypted state. If the entire system were to be shut down and the physical database moved and the system brought back up then if the person bringing up the system knows the semi permanent password the data could be decrypted. Note also that the decryption process is being performed on the system that is administering and providing access to the database. Viewed this way the database encryption process is static. In contrast in an embodiment of the invention the encryption process and associated password are only valid during the data transfer and then only in the client device while a browser or other suitable application is open.

In session based encryption such as using SSL entire documents can be encrypted and or authenticated i.e. signed and the recipient of the document can decrypt the document if they know the password and they can verify that the document has not been altered by verifying the signature. Similar to the database encryption scenario in this case the password is known ahead of time and the signature verification process is based on a previously set password or key. This entire document encryption process is how the verification of the certificate is done for the beginning of SSL. In general SSL uses asymmetric encryption to verify the certificate in the initial handshake but then uses symmetric session keys for data protection and transfer after the handshake.

In contrast in embodiments of the invention the inventive process creates new keys public and private each session with those keys being valid only for the session. In this sense they are different from the semi permanent passwords used when storing data in databases or for encrypting entire documents. While once a SSL session is established the passwords keys used are only valid for that session they are used to encrypt the entire packet of information. The receiver in turn decrypts all of the communicated information. In an embodiment of the invention selected fields may be encrypted with the receiver displaying only the non encrypted fields or instead choosing to display the confidential fields by doing the client side decryption of those fields. In one embodiment the invention uses asymmetric public private keys to encrypt protected fields. In addition to other benefits this also adds protection against man in the middle attacks where data is intercepted and decrypted.

As described in an embodiment of the invention when a user logs in the client and the server each create a new public key and private key for purposes of asymmetric cryptography and share their public keys with each other i.e. if the user has permission to access the protected fields of a record file document etc. . The protected data would be stored in a data center using standard database e.g. Oracle encryption. When a protected field or other form of data is requested by the client the server decrypts the field from the database and then re encrypts the field using the client public key. The re encrypted field is sent to the client where it may be viewed by decrypting using the client private key. For example if the user wants to edit the protected field they may click a button which uses the client private key to decrypt the data. After the data is edited and prior to sending the data to the server the client re encrypts the data using the server public key. When the server receives the data it decrypts it using the server private key and re encrypts it with the database encryption before writing to the database or other data storage element.

After this handshake operation further communications appear as shown in . Note that the entire document being transmitted is encrypted with a single password encryption method once the SSL layer is unwrapped the entire document is visible. The user is unaware of the encryption process and has no control over it 

When the document is displayed to the user in the browser application the client device uses its private key to decrypt the encrypted data and present it to the user as shown in 

Optionally in one embodiment the protected data can instead be redacted and not presented to the user pending an additional action by the user such as re entry of a password activation of an appropriate button or other user interface element etc. . Note that if the user is not authorized to view some or all of the protected data then that protected data may remain redacted or otherwise not visible to the user as shown in 

In some embodiments benefits of using the invention are derived by one or more of where in the communication flow process the encryption is added that certain fields can be protected or not and that the entire record can be sent to a user who may or may not have authorization to access the protected fields. Aside from cases of multilevel database encryption there is typically one password for an entire database thus anyone who has the password can read the data. In contrast in some embodiments of the invention any number of people can have public private keys or public private keys could be shared by users with shared authorization levels. Another option is for the keys to be dynamically generated at the time a session is established e.g. when a user logs in. In terms of implementation scenarios and benefits of those scenarios the following are noted 

Note that the client public private key used in an embodiment of the invention need not be generated in real time but may instead be semi permanent or previously determined and made available to the server. In this case the platform may store and use the same client public key from session to session or for a predetermined number of sessions before selecting a new key. The user on the client may need to enter the private key in the beginning of the session or for each transaction within the session to authenticate themselves. In some embodiments the client private key may be manually provided or instead stored in a memory device such as a USB stick that is provided to a client device. The client software would then use this private key to decrypt the protected fields. In one embodiment the client public key may be provided to the server from a previously populated data storage element that is in communication with the server platform. In such an embodiment the client public key may be selected from a previously generated list may be generated using a predetermined algorithm may be accessed from a set of keys that were previously provided to the data storage element etc. Thus in some embodiments the client key used by the server may not be provided by the client during that session but may instead be obtained from a data storage element or other suitable source.

As noted the inventive technology may be superimposed on top of an existing system architecture without changing the native platform application. This provides advantages in that the data only needs to be transferred from the platform to the client once. In other implementations not using the inventive method data would need to be transferred twice from the platform to the client when the user wanted to access protected fields and those fields would not have additional encryption protection. In one embodiment the client software could be designed to timeout user access to the protected fields in this case a user might only have 60 seconds to view or modify the protected fields without reentering the client private key.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention the system apparatus methods processes and or operations for providing field level protection of data stored on a cloud computing platform may be wholly or partially implemented in the form of a set of instructions executed by one or more programmed computer processors such as a central processing unit CPU or microprocessor. Such processors may be incorporated in an apparatus server network element client or other computing device operated by or in communication with other components of the system. As an example is a diagram illustrating elements or components that may be present in a computer device and or system configured to implement a method and or process in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The subsystems shown in are interconnected via a system bus . Additional subsystems include a printer a keyboard a fixed disk and a monitor which is coupled to a display adapter . Peripherals and input output I O devices which couple to an I O controller can be connected to the computer system by any number of means known in the art such as a serial port . For example the serial port or an external interface can be utilized to connect the computer device to further devices and or systems not shown in including a wide area network such as the Internet a mouse input device and or a scanner. The interconnection via the system bus allows one or more processors to communicate with each subsystem and to control the execution of instructions that may be stored in a system memory and or the fixed disk as well as the exchange of information between subsystems. The system memory and or the fixed disk may embody a tangible computer readable medium.

It should be understood that the present invention as described above can be implemented in the form of control logic using computer software in a modular or integrated manner. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will know and appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the present invention using hardware and a combination of hardware and software.

Any of the software components processes or functions described in this application may be implemented as software code to be executed by a processor using any suitable computer language such as for example Java Javascript C or Perl using for example conventional or object oriented techniques. The software code may be stored as a series of instructions or commands on a computer readable medium such as a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a magnetic medium such as a hard drive or a floppy disk or an optical medium such as a CD ROM. Any such computer readable medium may reside on or within a single computational apparatus and may be present on or within different computational apparatuses within a system or network.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and or were set forth in its entirety herein.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the specification and in the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms having including containing and similar referents in the specification and in the following claims are to be construed as open ended terms e.g. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely indented to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value inclusively falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate embodiments of the invention and does not pose a limitation to the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to each embodiment of the present invention.

Different arrangements of the components depicted in the drawings or described above as well as components and steps not shown or described are possible. Similarly some features and sub combinations are useful and may be employed without reference to other features and sub combinations. Embodiments of the invention have been described for illustrative and not restrictive purposes and alternative embodiments will become apparent to readers of this patent. Accordingly the present invention is not limited to the embodiments described above or depicted in the drawings and various embodiments and modifications can be made without departing from the scope of the claims below.

