---

title: Automatic volume control for combined game and chat audio
abstract: A system may comprise an input circuit, one or more filter circuits, one or more common signal detection circuits, and a controller. The input circuit may receive combined-game-and-chat audio signals generated from a mixing together of a chat audio signal and game audio signals. The filter circuit(s) may filter a first of the combined-game-and-chat audio signals to generate a first vocal-band signal and a first non-vocal-band signal, and filter a second of the combined-game-and-chat audio signals resulting in a second vocal-band signal and a second-non-vocal band signal. The common signal detection circuit(s) may detect strength of a signal component that is common to the first vocal-band signal and the second vocal-band signal, and strength of a signal component that is common to the first non-vocal-band signal and the second non-vocal-band signal. The controller may automatically control a volume setting based on one or both of the detected strengths.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08811629&OS=08811629&RS=08811629
owner: Voyetra Turtle Beach, Inc.
number: 08811629
owner_city: Campbell
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140120
---
This applications claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 875 391 filed on Sep. 9 2013 and to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 908 606 filed Nov. 25 2013 each of which is titled Automatic Volume Control for Combined Game and Chat Audio and is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety for all purposes.

The entirety of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 949 754 titled Headphone System for Computer Gaming and filed on Jul. 24 2013 is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Aspects of the present application relate to electronic gaming. More specifically to methods and systems for automatic volume control for combined game and chat audio.

Limitations and disadvantages of conventional approaches to audio processing for gaming will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such approaches with some aspects of the present method and system set forth in the remainder of this disclosure with reference to the drawings.

Methods and systems are provided for automatic volume control for combined game and chat audio substantially as illustrated by and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

As utilized herein the terms circuits and circuitry refer to physical electronic components i.e. hardware and any software and or firmware code which may configure the hardware be executed by the hardware and or otherwise be associated with the hardware. As used herein for example a particular processor and memory may comprise a first circuit when executing a first one or more lines of code and may comprise a second circuit when executing a second one or more lines of code. As utilized herein and or means any one or more of the items in the list joined by and or . As an example x and or y means any element of the three element set x y x y . As another example x y and or z means any element of the seven element set x y z x y x z y z x y z . As utilized herein the terms e.g. and for example set off lists of one or more non limiting examples instances or illustrations. As utilized herein circuitry is operable to perform a function whenever the circuitry comprises the necessary hardware and code if any is necessary to perform the function regardless of whether performance of the function is disabled or not enabled by some user configurable setting.

In multiplayer games that are played over a local area network or the internet via a console such as Microsoft Xbox or Sony Playstation game audio and voice are combined and provided via an audio output e.g. an analog or digital output audio jack for wired output or a radio for wireless output to which a user may connect a headset. One problem with this form of game play is that the game audio in the headset has a wide dynamic range. In other words at times a low volume can rapidly increase to a high volume when for instance an explosion or other dynamic event occurs in the game. These loudness dynamics may be sustained for long periods of time for instance during heated battle in an action game. A consequence of this wide dynamic range is that if the volume of the voice communication signals the chat volume is set for a comfortable volume level during normal game passages they cannot be heard over the loud game audio when dynamic game passages occur. Where separate game and chat audio is provided by a gaming console to a headset a solution for ensuring that the chat audio is comprehensible and not swamped out by the game audio is for the user to manually adjust the game and chat volumes e.g. via buttons on his her headset controller and or in a GUI of the console . This is undesirable since it requires the player to momentarily lose control of the game as the hand moves from the game controls to adjust the chat volume level. Furthermore where chat and game audio are premixed by the console such that separate chat and game audio signals are not available manual separate adjustment of chat and game volume is no longer an option. Aspects of this disclosure provide for controlling volume of chat and or game components of combined chat and game audio signals to maintain the user s ability to hear the chat audio even when the volume and frequency content of the game audio is highly variable.

Referring to there is shown game console which may be for example a Windows computing device a Unix computing device a Linux computing device an Apple OSX computing device an Apple iOS computing device an Android computing device a Microsoft Xbox a Sony Playstation a Nintendo Wii or the like. The example game console comprises a video interface radio data interface network interface video interface audio interface southbridge main system on chip SoC memory optical drive and storage device . The SoC comprises central processing unit CPU graphics processing unit GPU audio processing unit APU cache memory and memory management unit MMU . The various components of the game console are communicatively coupled through various busses links and .

The southbridge comprises circuitry that supports one or more data bus protocols such as High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Universal Serial Bus USB Serial Advanced Technology Attachment 2 SATA 2 embedded multimedia card interface e.MMC Peripheral Component Interconnect Express PCIe or the like. The southbridge may receive audio and or video from an external source via link e.g. HDMI from the optical drive e.g. Blu Ray via link e.g. SATA 2 and or from storage e.g. hard drive FLASH memory or the like via link e.g. SATA 2 and or e.MMC . Digital audio and or video is output to the SoC via link e.g. CEA 861 E compliant video and IEC 61937 compliant audio . The southbridge exchanges data with radio via link e.g. USB with external devices via link e.g. USB with the storage via the link and with the SoC via the link e.g. PCIe .

The radio may comprise circuitry operable to communicate in accordance with one or more wireless standards such as the IEEE 802.11 family of standards the Bluetooth family of standards and or the like.

The network interface may comprise circuitry operable to communicate in accordance with one or more wired standards and to convert between wired standards. For example the network interface may communicate with the SoC via link using a first standard e.g. PCIe and may communicate with the network using a second standard e.g. gigabit Ethernet .

The video interface may comprise circuitry operable to communicate video in accordance with one or more wired or wireless video transmission standards. For example the video interface may receive CEA 861 E compliant video data via link and encapsulate format etc. the video data in accordance with an HDMI standard for output to the monitor via an HDMI link .

The audio interface may comprise circuitry operable to communicate audio in accordance with one or more wired or wireless audio transmission standards. For example the audio interface may receive CEA 861 E compliant video data via link and encapsulate format etc. the video data in accordance with an HDMI standard for output to the monitor via an HDMI link .

The central processing unit CPU may comprise circuitry operable to execute instructions for controlling coordinating the overall operation of the game console . Such instructions may be part of an operating system of the console and or part of one or more software applications running on the console.

The graphics processing unit GPU may comprise circuitry operable to perform graphics processing functions such as compression decompression encoding decoding 3D rendering and or the like.

The audio processing unit APU may comprise circuitry operable to perform audio processing functions such as volume gain control compression decompression encoding decoding surround sound processing and or the like to output single channel or multi channel e.g. 2 channels for stereo or 5 7 or more channels for surround sound audio signals. The APU comprises a memory element e.g. a hardware or software register which stores configuration data including gain volume settings. The configuration data may be modified via a graphical user interface GUI of the console and or via an application programming interface API provided by the console .

The cache memory comprises high speed memory typically DRAM for use by the CPU GPU and or APU . The memory may comprise additional memory for use by the CPU GPU and or APU . The memory typically DRAM may operate at a slower speed than the cache memory but may also be less expensive than cache memory as well as operate at a higher speed than the memory of the storage device . The MMU controls accesses by the CPU GPU and or APU to the memory the cache and or the storage device .

In the example game console is communicatively coupled to a user interface device a user interface device a network a monitor and audio subsystem .

Each of the user interface devices and may comprise for example a game controller a keyboard a motion sensor position tracker or the like. The user interface device communicates with the game console wirelessly via link e.g. Wi Fi Direct Bluetooth and or the like . The user interface device communicates with the game console via the wired link e.g. USB or the like .

The network comprises a local area network and or a wide area network. The game console communicates with the network via wired link e.g. Gigabit Ethernet .

The monitor may be for example a LCD OLED or PLASMA screen. The game console sends video to the monitor via link e.g. HDMI .

The audio subsystem may be for example a headset a combination of headset and audio basestation or a set of speakers and accompanying audio processing circuitry. The game console sends audio to the monitor via link s e.g. S PDIF for digital audio or line out for analog audio .

In the game console is connected to an audio subsystem comprising audio output device s which in turn comprises audio processing circuitry that is operable to perform chat enhancement as described herein. The device s may comprise for example a headset with integrated audio processing circuitry or a set of speakers with integrated or associated audio processing circuitry. An example implementation of the headset of comprising chat enhancement circuitry is described with reference to .

Referring to there is shown two views of an example headset that is an example embodiment of the audio output device of . The headset comprises a headband a microphone boom with microphone ear cups and which surround speakers and connector connector and user controls .

The connector may be for example a 3.5 mm headphone socket for receiving analog audio signals e.g. receiving chat audio via an Xbox talkback cable .

The microphone converts acoustic waves e.g. the voice of the person wearing the headset to electric signals for processing by the circuitry of the headset.

The user controls may comprise dedicated and or programmable buttons switches sliders wheels etc. for performing various functions. Example functions which the controls may be configured to perform include power the headset on off mute unmute the microphone control gain volume of and or effects applied to chat audio by the audio processing circuitry of the headset control gain volume of and or effects applied to game audio by the audio processing circuitry of the headset enable disable initiate pairing e.g. via Bluetooth Wi Fi direct or the like with another computing device or the like.

The connector may be for example a USB port. The connector may be used for downloading data to the headset from another computing device and or uploading data from the headset to another computing device. Such data may include for example configuration data that affects how audio signals in the headset are processed e.g. gain volume settings whether and which sound effects are added to which audio signals etc. and functions performed by the user controls . Additionally or alternatively the connector may be used for communicating with another computing device such as a smartphone tablet compute laptop computer or the like.

The radio may comprise circuitry operable to communicate in accordance with one or more standardized such as for example the IEEE 802.11 family of standards the Bluetooth family of standards and or the like and or proprietary wireless protocol s e.g. a proprietary protocol for receiving audio from an audio basestation such as the basestation described below with reference to A and B for example .

The CPU may comprise circuitry operable to execute instructions for controlling coordinating the overall operation of the headset . Such instructions may be part of an operating system or state machine of the headset and or part of one or more software applications running on the headset . In some implementations the CPU may be for example a programmable interrupt controller a state machine or the like.

The storage device may comprise for example FLASH or other nonvolatile memory for storing configuration data etc. which may be used by the CPU and or the audio processing circuitry e.g. loaded into volatile memory during runtime . Such data may include for example configuration data that affects how audio signals in the headset are processed e.g. affects gain volume settings whether and which sound effects are added to which audio signals etc. and functions performed by the user controls .

The memory may comprise volatile memory used by the CPU and or audio processing circuit as program memory for storing runtime data etc.

The audio processing circuit may comprise circuitry operable to perform audio processing functions such as volume gain control compression decompression encoding decoding introduction of audio effects e.g. echo phasing virtual surround effect etc. and or the like to output audio signals comprising game chat and microphone audio to speaker and

In operation referring to both chat audio represented as arrow and game audio represented as arrow are input to the APU of the console . The chat audio may arrive for example via the network interface . The game audio may arrive for example via the Optical drive the Storage the link and or the network interface . The APU may process the chat and game audio as necessary e.g. decompress decode etc. to recover a chat audio band signal chat audio carrying voices of other players participating in a networked chat and game audio band signals game audio carrying the music sound effects etc. generated by the game. The chat audio may be a monophonic signal and the game audio may be a multi channel signal.

The APU may then mix together the chat audio and game audio resulting in combined game and chat audio signals represented as arrow . The respective strengths of the chat audio and game audio during mixing may be controlled based on gain volume settings in the configuration data in memory element . For example a first gain may be applied to a chat audio signal a second gain may be applied to a left game audio signal and a right game audio signal then the left game audio signal and chat audio signal may be mixed to produce a left combined game and chat audio signal and the right game audio signal and chat audio signal may be mixed to produce a right combined game and chat audio signal. The combined game and chat audio signals are then conveyed to the audio interface which suitably formats them resulting in signals for conveyance to the audio subsystem e.g. via link of .

The combined game and chat audio signals arrive at the audio processing circuitry via either the connector or the radio . The audio processing circuitry performs any processing e.g. gain volume control introduction of sound effects etc. dictated by currently selected configuration data resulting in signals which are output to the speakers and

Concurrent with outputting the combined game and chat signals to the speakers and the chat enhancement circuitry processes the combined game and chat audio signals to detect the strength of the chat component and or the game component. Example details of such processing are described below with reference to . Based on the detected strength s the chat enhancement circuitry may adjust as necessary the volume settings in the configuration data stored in the memory element . The adjustment may comprise for example generating a volume control command e.g. sent via link and that causes a call of a volume adjustment function of an API provided by the game console . For example if chat audio is too weak relative to the game audio a command to increase the chat audio and or decrease the game audio may be generated. Conversely if chat audio is too strong relative to the game audio a command to increase the chat audio and or decrease the game audio may be generated.

In an example implementation the signals and may be routed via a user interface device interposed between the console and the subsystem e.g. where the console is an Xbox .

Now referring to the game console is connected to an audio subsystem comprising an audio basestation and audio output device s . The device s may comprise for example a headset similar to the headset described above but without the chat enhancement circuitry . The example implementation of the audio basestation depicted in comprises the chat enhancement circuitry and is further described with reference to .

The audio connectors and may comprise digital audio in and digital audio out e.g. S PDIF connectors respectively. The audio connectors and may comprise a left line in and a right line in connector respectively. The controls may comprise for example a power button a button for enabling disabling virtual surround sound a button for adjusting the perceived angles of the speakers when the virtual surround sound is enabled and a dial for controlling a volume gain of the audio received via the line in connectors and . The status indicators may indicate for example whether the audio basestation is powered on whether audio data is being received by the basestation via connectors and or what type of audio data e.g. Dolby Digital is being received by the basestation .

The radio comprises circuitry operable to communicate in accordance with one or more standardized such as the IEEE 802.11 family of standards the Bluetooth family of standards and or the like and or proprietary e.g. proprietary protocol for receiving audio protocols for receiving audio from a console such as the console . wireless protocols.

The radio comprises circuitry operable to communicate in accordance with one or more standardized such as for example the IEEE 802.11 family of standards the Bluetooth family of standards and or the like and or proprietary wireless protocol s e.g. a proprietary protocol for transmitting audio to audio output device s .

The CPU comprises circuitry operable to execute instructions for controlling coordinating the overall operation of the audio basestation . Such instructions may be part of an operating system or state machine of the audio basestation and or part of one or more software applications running on the audio basestation . In some implementations the CPU may be for example a programmable interrupt controller a state machine or the like.

The storage may comprise for example FLASH or other nonvolatile memory for storing configuration data etc. which may be used by the CPU and or the audio processing circuitry e.g. by being loaded into volatile memory during runtime . Such data may include for example configuration data that affects how audio signals in the audio basestation are processed e.g. gain volume settings whether and which sound effects are added to which audio signals etc. and functions performed by the user controls .

The memory may comprise volatile memory used by the CPU and or audio processing circuit as program memory for storing runtime data etc.

The audio processing circuit may comprise circuitry operable to perform audio processing functions such as volume gain control compression decompression encoding decoding introduction of audio effects e.g. echo phasing virtual surround effect etc. and or the like to output audio signals comprising game and chat to the radio .

The combined game and chat audio signals arrive at the audio processing circuitry via either the connector the connectors and or the radio . The audio processing circuitry performs any processing e.g. gain volume control introduction of sound effects etc. of the combined game and chat audio signals dictated by currently selected configuration data resulting in signals which are output to the radio . The radio converts the received combined game and chat audio signals to a format suitable for transmission to the audio output device s . For example the audio basestation modulates the audio signals onto an RF carrier and transmits the resulting signal wirelessly to the audio output device s .

In an example embodiment concurrent with processing the combined game and chat signals for output via radio the chat enhancement circuitry processes the combined game and chat audio signals to detect the strength of the chat component and or the game component. Example details of such processing are described below with reference to . Based on the detected strength s the chat enhancement circuitry may adjust as necessary the volume settings in the configuration data stored in the memory element . The adjustment may comprise for example generating a volume control command e.g. sent via link and that causes a call of a volume adjustment function of an API provided by the game console . For example if chat audio is too weak relative to the game audio a command to increase the chat audio and or decrease the game audio may be generated. Conversely if chat audio is too strong relative to the game audio a command to increase the chat audio and or decrease the game audio may be generated. In an example implementation the signal may indicate a current chat audio to game audio ratio a desired chat audio to game audio ratio and or a desired increase or decrease in the chat audio to game audio ratio.

The audio output device receives the signal demodulates it to recover the combined game and chat audio signals performs any additional desired audio processing and outputs to speakers such as the speakers and

Now referring to depicts a high level block diagram of example chat enhancement circuitry. In the example implementation of the circuitry comprises speakers and an envelope detector a game chat distinguisher and a volume controller . The envelope detector may determine the envelope of signal . The game chat distinguisher may separate the envelope into a game audio envelope and a chat audio envelope . The volume controller may calculate the chat audio to game audio ratio and generate the signal based on the signals and

Now referring to there is shown example circuitry for enhancing the chat component of a combined game and chat audio stream. The example chat enhancement circuitry comprises filters and common signal detection circuits and controller multi band equalizers and and combiner .

Each of the filters and is operable to pass from its input to its output a selected range of frequencies the passband with relatively little attenuation while other frequencies experience relatively high attenuation between the input and output of the filter. In an example implementation the passband of filters and may substantially coincide with the frequency range of the human voice from approximately 300 Hz to 3000 Hz the vocal band . In an example implementation the passband s of filters and may substantially not overlap with the vocal band i.e. may have a notch corresponding to the vocal band .

Each of the common signal detection circuits and is operable to detect the strength of a signal component that is common to its two inputs and output that strength via a respective one of signals and . In an example implementation the signal strengths may be output as a root mean square RMS values. In an example implementation prior to measuring the signal component that is common to its two inputs the circuit may look for characteristics that indicate the presence of speech. These may be characteristics of speech in general and or characteristics of speech that has passed over the band limited chat audio channel. Example characteristics that the circuit may inspect for include the presence of harmonics formants and or pitch modulation. If the circuit determines that speech is not present based on these characteristics it may output a default strength e.g. 0 on the signal rather than an actual measured strength.

The combiner may be operable to add the left combined game and chat audio signal or if the equalizers are present and have modified the signal to the right combined game and chat audio signal or if the equalizers are present and have modified the signal and output the strength e.g. as an RMS value of the combined signal via signal . Additionally or alternatively the combiner may be operable to subtract the left or right combined game and chat audio signal or if the equalizers are present and have modified the signal from the right or left combined game and chat audio signal or if the equalizers are present and have modified the signal and output the strength e.g. as an RMS value of the difference signal via signal .

Each of the multi band equalizers and may be operable to apply at least a first gain to a first set of frequencies e.g. vocal band frequencies of the respective one of the combined game and audio signals and a second gain to a second set of frequencies e.g. non vocal band frequencies . The volume gain settings for the equalizers and may be determined by configuration data stored in their respective memory elements e.g. hardware or software register which may be modified by the controller via a respective one of signals and . The output of EQ may be applied to a left speaker not shown . The output of EQ may be applied to a right speaker not shown .

The controller may be operable to modify the volume gain settings in the configuration data in memory element of the multi band equalizers the volume gain settings in the configuration data in memory element of the multi band equalizer and or the volume gain settings in the configuration data in memory element of the APU . Modifications to the gain volume settings may be based on the signal strength values received via signals and . The controller may adjust the gain volume settings automatically without need for user intervention. The adjustments may be based on other configuration which may for example also be stored in memory element and which may be pre configured to factory defaults and or configurable via a graphical user interface and or API provide by the audio subsystem in which the circuitry is installed. Examples of such other configuration data include maximum gain volume minimum gain volume target gain volume maximum game audio to chat audio ratio minimum game audio to chat audio ratio target game audio to chat audio and or the like.

In block the left and right combined game and chat audio signals are received in audio processing circuitry having chat enhancement capability e.g. of or of .

In block the audio processing circuitry determines strength Strength 1 of vocal band component that is common to the left and right combined game and chat audio signals.

In block the audio processing circuitry determines strength Strength 2 of non vocal band component that is common to the left and right combined game and chat audio signals.

In block the audio processing circuitry determines strength Strength 3 of a chat component of the combined game and chat audio signals based on Strength 1 and Strength 2 according to the following expression Strength 3 Strength 1 Strength 2. This calculation makes the assumption that the common non vocal component is broadband and thus also present in the common vocal component.

In block the audio processing circuitry determines strength Strength 4 of game audio to be the difference between the left combined game and chat audio signal and the right combined game and chat audio signal since the chat is common to both left and right and cancels out as a result of the subtraction.

In block a command to modify chat and or game volume is generated if necessary based on said determined ratio.

In block a chat audio signal e.g. of is mixed with left and right game audio signals e.g. of resulting in combined game and chat audio signals e.g. of .

In block the left and right combined game and chat audio signals are received in audio processing circuitry having chat enhancement capability e.g. of or of .

In block the audio processing circuitry e.g. of or of calculates one or more of the following parameters based on the combined game and chat audio signals total energy difference energy center channel vocal band energy non vocal band energy autocorrelation cepstrum.

The total energy may for example be calculated as the sum of energy in the left and right channels and smoothed with a first order recursive filter.

The difference energy may for example be calculated as the averaged difference between the left and right channels. The difference energy may represent the content of the game audio that is not correlated between left and right channels. When the difference energy is a high percentage of the total energy it may be determined that speech is present in the combined game and chat audio signals.

The center channel voice band energy may for example be calculated by passing the left and right channels through a voice band filter and then correlating the filter outputs with zero lag to determine the voice band energy in the center surround channel. The ratio of the center channel voice band energy to the total energy may be used to determine whether speech is present in the combined game and chat audio signals.

The non vocal band energy may for example be calculated by summing the left and right channels and passing the sum through a vocal band band stop filter. The filter may remove chat signals such that the energy of the filtered signal is primarily from game audio.

The autocorrelation of the each of the received left and right combined game and chat audio signals may have peaks at the pitch period. If the pitch of a signal falls within the vocal band the audio processing circuitry may determine speech is present in the signal.

The cepstrum of the input may be calculated for the left and right channels. For speech as it is rich in harmonics the cepstrum will have a peak at the pitch period. The richer the harmonics the stronger is the peak. The strength of the peak indicates the strength of harmonics with respect to the background game sound. The presence of pitch period in voice band and its modulation may result in the audio processing circuitry determining that speech is present in the signals.

In block the gain control signal is smoothed e.g. by controlling attack and release times to give the audio source sufficient time to respond to prevent pops in the audio. In block a limit may also be applied such that the chat is prevented from being increased or decreased beyond determined threshold levels e.g. user defined .

In addition to its application to gaming with online chat. Aspects of this disclosure are also applicable to enhancing one component of any signal that is the result of mixing together two signals having different bandwidths. In this regard while the filters and of were configured to pass vocal band and non vocal band frequencies respectively in the example embodiment described this disclosure is not so limited. The filters can be configured to pass any first set of frequencies and the filters can be configured to pass any second set of frequencies different than the first set of frequencies. As another example a user may be listening to music on his phone while simultaneously participating in a voice call. The call audio and the music audio may be mixed together for transmission to the user s headset. The headset may comprise the chat enhancement circuitry for enhancing the call audio to ensure it remains audible and intelligible over the music. Where each of the mixed together audio signals have a vocal component e.g. participating in a voice call while simultaneously listening to a soundtrack of a movie aspects of this disclosure may still enable enhancing the call audio to ride above the actor s voices due to the fact that the soundtrack will typically have higher bandwidth allowing for the presence of harmonics of the actor s voices which enables distinguishing those voices from the much more band limited voice call.

In an example implementation of this disclosure a system may comprise an input circuit e.g. connector or radio or radio one or more filter circuits e.g. and one or more common signal detection circuits e.g. and and a controller e.g. . The input circuit may be operable to receive combined game and chat audio signals generated from a mixing together of a chat audio signal and game audio signals. The one or more filter circuits may be operable to filter a first of the combined game and chat audio signals to generate a first vocal band signal and a first non vocal band signal. The one or more filter circuits may be operable to filter a second of the combined game and chat audio signals resulting in a second vocal band signal and a second non vocal band signal. The one or more common signal detection circuits may be operable to detect strength of a signal component that is common to the first vocal band signal and the second vocal band signal. The one or more common signal detection circuits may be operable to detect a strength of a signal component that is common to the first non vocal band signal and the second non vocal band signal. The controller may be operable to automatically control a volume setting based on one or both of the detected strength of the chat component and the detected strength of the game component.

The present method and or system may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present methods and or systems may be realized in a centralized fashion in at least one computing system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computing systems. Any kind of computing system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computing system with a program or other code that when being loaded and executed controls the computing system such that it carries out the methods described herein. Another typical implementation may comprise an application specific integrated circuit or chip. Some implementations may comprise a non transitory machine readable e.g. computer readable medium e.g. FLASH drive optical disk magnetic storage disk or the like having stored thereon one or more lines of code executable by a machine thereby causing the machine to perform processes as described herein.

While the present method and or system has been described with reference to certain implementations it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the present method and or system. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the present disclosure without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the present method and or system not be limited to the particular implementations disclosed but that the present method and or system will include all implementations falling within the scope of the appended claims.

