---

title: Communication between authentication plug-ins of a single-point authentication manager and client systems
abstract: Various arrangements for providing authentication information to a user are presented. A single-point authentication manager executed by a computer system may receive a request to access a resource from a remote client computer system. The single-point authentication manager may manage access to a plurality of resources including the resource. The single-point authentication manager may perform authentication using an authentication plug-in. In response to performing authentication of the user, the authentication plug-in may generate a parameter having a value that is a message to be transmitted to the remote client computer system. In response to receiving the parameter and the value from the authentication plug-in, the single-point authentication manager may transmit the value of the parameter to the application if the authentication is successful and to a credential collector if the authentication of the user failed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09525682&OS=09525682&RS=09525682
owner: ORACLE INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
number: 09525682
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141120
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 663 189 filed Oct. 29 2012. This application is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

When a user is attempting to authenticate with a remote system such as to access one or more remotely hosted resources e.g. applications the user may be required to provide authentication information such as a username and password. If the username and password provided is valid the user may be granted access to use the resources. However if the username and password provided by the user fails the user may have little or no visibility into the failure. For example the user may not know whether the user is inputting an incorrect password or the user s account has been locked. The user may find it useful to receive additional feedback from the remote system as to why the authentication process failed. If an authentication process is successful the user may find it useful to receive status information about the login process such as information that indicates how long until the user is required to change his password.

Various arrangements for providing authentication information to a user are presented. A method for providing authentication information to a user may be presented. The method may include receiving by a single point authentication manager executed by a computer system a request to access a resource from a remote client computer system. The single point authentication manager may manage access to a plurality of resources including the resource. The single point authentication manager may communicate with an authentication plug in application that performs a type of authentication. The method may include performing by the authentication plug in application authentication of the user. The method may include in response to performing authentication of the user creating by the authentication plug in application a message to be transmitted to the remote client computer system. The message may include an indication that the message is to be passed to the remote client computer system. The message may include information regarding the authentication of the user. The method may include in response to receiving the message from the authentication plug in application transmitting the message to the remote client computer system.

Various embodiments of such a method may include one or more of the following The information regarding the authentication of the user may include status information of an authentication process wherein the authentication process failed. The information regarding the authentication of the user may include status information about an authentication process wherein the authentication process is successful. The method may include executing the resource remote from the remote client computer system. The method may include determining by the authentication plug in application a credential collector is communication with the single point authentication manager from within a single domain. Based on determining the credential collector is communicating with the single point authentication manager from within the single domain an http forward operation may be used for transmitting the message to the remote client computer system via the credential collector. The method may include determining by the authentication plug in application a credential collector is communicating with the single point authentication manager from a separate domain. Based on determining the credential collector is communicating with the single point authentication manager from the separate domain an http redirect operation may be used for transmitting the message to the remote client computer system via the credential collector. The method may include determining by the single point authentication manager executed by the computer system the authentication plug in application is to be used to authenticate the request received from a client. The message may be presented to the user via a web browser at the remote client computer system.

In some embodiments a computer program product residing on a non transitory computer readable medium for providing authentication information to a user is presented. The computer program product may comprise computer readable instructions configured to cause a computer to receive a request to access a resource from a remote client computer system. The computer program product may comprise a single point authentication manager that receives the request manages access to a plurality of resources including the resource. The single point authentication manager may communicate with an authentication plug in application that performs a type of authentication. The computer program product may comprise computer readable instructions configured to cause the computer to perform using the authentication plug in application authentication of the user. The computer program product may comprise computer readable instructions configured to cause the computer to in response to performing authentication of the user create using the authentication plug in application a message to be transmitted to the remote client computer system. The message may include an indication that the message is to be passed to the remote client computer system. The message may include information regarding the authentication of the user. The computer program product may comprise computer readable instructions configured to cause the computer to in response to receiving the message from the authentication plug in application cause the message to be transmitted to the remote client computer system.

Embodiments of such a computer program product may include one or more of the following The information regarding the authentication of the user may include status information of an authentication process wherein the authentication process failed. The information regarding the authentication of the user may include status information about an authentication process wherein the authentication process is successful. The computer program product may further include computer readable instructions configured to cause the computer to determine a credential collector is communicating with the single point authentication manager from within a single domain. Based on determining the credential collector is communicating with the single point authentication manager from within the single domain an http forward operation may be used for transmitting the message to the remote client computer system via the credential collector. The computer program product may further include computer readable instructions configured to cause the computer to determine a credential collector is communicating with the single point authentication manager from a separate domain. Based on determining the credential collector is communicating with the single point authentication manager from the separate domain an http redirect operation may be used for transmitting the message to the remote client computer system via the credential collector. The computer program product further comprising computer readable instructions configured to cause the computer to determine the authentication plug in application is to be used to authenticate the request received from a client. The message may be presented to the user via a web browser at the remote client computer system.

In some embodiments a system for providing authentication information to a user may be presented. The system may include a single point authentication computer system. The single point authentication computer system may include a processor. The single point authentication computer system may include a memory communicatively coupled with and readable by the processor and having stored therein processor readable instructions. When the processor readable instructions are executed by the processor the processor readable instructions may cause the processor to receive by a single point authentication manager executed by the single point authentication computer system a request to access a resource from a remote client computer system. The single point authentication manager may manage access to a plurality of resources including the resource. The single point authentication manager may communicate with an authentication plug in application that performs a type of authentication. When the processor readable instructions are executed by the processor the processor readable instructions may cause the processor to perform by the authentication plug in application authentication of the user. When the processor readable instructions are executed by the processor the processor readable instructions may cause the processor to in response to performing authentication of the user creating by the authentication plug in application a message to be transmitted to the remote client computer system. The message may include an indication that the message is to be passed to the remote client computer system. The message may include information regarding the authentication of the user. When the processor readable instructions are executed by the processor the processor readable instructions may cause the processor to in response to receiving the message from the authentication plug in application cause the message to be transmitted to the remote client computer system.

Embodiments of such a system may include one or more of the following The information regarding the authentication of the user may include status information of an authentication process wherein the authentication process failed. The information regarding the authentication of the user may include status information about an authentication process wherein the authentication process is successful. The processor readable instructions of the single point authentication computer system which when executed by the processor may further cause the processor to determine a credential collector is communicating with the single point authentication manager from within a single domain. Based on determining the credential collector is communicating with the single point authentication manager from within the single domain an http forward operation may be used for transmitting the message to the remote client computer system via the credential collector. The processor readable instructions of the single point authentication computer system which when executed by the processor may further cause the processor to determine a credential collector is communicating with the single point authentication manager from a separate domain. Based on determining the credential collector is communicating with the single point authentication manager from the separate domain an http redirect operation may be used for transmitting the message to the remote client computer system via the credential collector.

A single point authentication manager may be used to control access to one or more applications that are executed remotely from client computer systems. A user may use a client computer system to access the one or more applications that are executed remotely. In order to access the one or more applications it may be necessary for the user to be authenticated. For each of the applications authentication may be performed via the single point authentication manager. While the single point authentication manager may handle authentication one or more other computer systems may handle execution of the one or more applications.

Depending on the type of authentication that is desired to be performed various different authentication plug in applications may be used in conjunction with the single point authentication manager. For instance one authentication plug in may handle username password authentication. The single point authentication manager may communicate with each authentication plug in. A business entity such as a corporation may implement a customized authentication plug in to perform specific authentication functionality desired by the business entity.

In some instances it may be desirable for an authentication plug in to be able to pass information to the user of the client computer system. For instance if authentication fails rather than the single point authentication manager returning a generic message to the user via the client computer system such as login failed a useful message may be passed from the authentication plug in through the single point authentication manager to the user via the client computer system. For instance a more detailed message in response to a failed authentication may be Your account has been locked please call 888.555.4278 for assistance. 

In addition to situations where authentication fails when authentication is successful it may be desirable to at least occasionally pass information to the user by the authentication plug in. As an example of this the user may be alerted that the user s password will expire in some amount of days by an authentication plug in. Accordingly a message stating as such may be passed from the authentication plug in through the single point authentication manager to the user via the client computer system.

Additionally the ability of an authentication plug in to use HTTP forward and redirect operations may be a configurable parameter of the plug in. If the client computer system being used by the user is within a same domain of the single point authentication manager a forward operation may be used to transmit a message from the authentication plug in to the client computer system. If the client computer system being used by the user outside the domain of the single point authentication manager a redirect operation may be used to transmit the message from the authentication plug in to the client computer system. Accordingly a single plug in that is configured to handle both clients within and outside of the same domain may not require any modified code or a redeployment.

Client computer system may represent a computer system remote from single point access manager computer system . Single point access manager computer system may be an ORACLE Access Manager OAM server or some other server system configured to perform authentication services for access to multiple applications that are remotely executed from client computer systems. Client computer system may be operated by a user that is attempting to access one or more applications that are executed remotely. Access to these one or more applications may be controlled by single point access manager executed by single point access manager computer system . Information may be presented to the user via a web browser being executed by client computer system or some other form of interface for presenting information from single point access manager .

Credential collector interface may be presented to a user via a web browser of client computer system . Credential collector interface may be used to collect data for a credential collector from the user that will be used by single point access manager and one or more authentication plug in applications to authenticate the user of client computer system . Credential collector interface may communicate with a credential collector being executed by single point access manager computer system or may be redirected from some other computer system separate from single point access manager computer system . Credential collector interface may be presented by web browser. Credential collector interface may for example request a username and password from the user of client computer system . Credential collector interface may also request additional or alternate information from the user such as a voice sample a digital certificate a fingerprint a retina scan some other form of biometric input and or generally some other form of data that may be used to authenticate the user.

Following a successful authentication client computer system may present application interface to the user. Application interface may be used for access to an application which may be executed remotely from client computer system to which access was requested by the user. The application may be executed locally by client computer system or remotely by some other computer system. In some embodiments application interface is presented within a web browser to a user via client computer system . Whether executed locally or remotely access to the application of application interface may be controlled by single point access manager executed by single point access manager computer system .

Communication between client computer system and single point access manager computer system may be performed via one or more networks. Network may represent one or more networks including private and or public networks. An example of a public network may be the Internet. An example of a private network may be a corporate intranet.

Single point access manager computer system may execute a single point access manager such as single point access manager . Single point access manager may include several components such as authentication engine and identity store application programming interface API . Single point access manager may be configured to control access to one or more resources such as applications which may be executed remotely from client computer systems. As such single point access manager may control access to multiple applications for multiple users accessing the applications from multiple client computer systems. For simplicity in a single client computer system is shown in communication with single point access manager computer system . It should be understood that in other embodiments many client computer systems may be accessing single point access manager computer system simultaneously. The applications to which access is controlled by single point access manager may be executed by one or more other computer systems. As such following successful authentication single point access manager may hand off the authenticated user to the computer system hosting the requested application.

Single point access manager that is being executed by single point access manager computer system may be configured to perform various types of authentication including authentication that is customized for a particular customer. Single point access manager may represent an ORACLE Access Manager OAM or some other authentication application that is configured to control access to multiple applications that are remotely executed from client computer systems. As an example of one such arrangement that may be used a customer such as a business entity that desires to control access to multiple applications by its employees may have a specific type of authentication it desires to use to control access to the applications. Depending on the type of authentication desired various authentication plug in applications may be used in conjunction with authentication engine of single point access manager in order to perform authentication of users.

As an example of the customization possible with authentication engine if a customer desires username and password authentication of its users a username password authentication plug in application may be used in conjunction with single point access manager in order to enable such a form of authentication. In system authentication plug in application may represent a username password authentication plug in application. Authentication plug in application may communicate with identity store API . Identity store API may be configured to access one or more identity stores such as identity store in order to retrieve the data necessary to authenticate a user. Some examples of customized authentication plug ins include plug ins that perform authentication based on fingerprints retina scans or some other form of biometric input. Another example may be a plug in that authenticates based on an RSA SecureID.

Authentication plug in application may be used to perform some other form of authentication different than authentication plug in application . Which authentication plug in application is used for authentication of the user may be based on the resource attempting to be accessed by the user via client computer system . Other factors may also determine which authentication plug in application is used such as the identity of the user and or whether the client computer system is located within or outside the domain of single point access manager computer system . In some instances multiple authentication plug in applications may be used to authenticate a user. Further it should be understood that in other embodiments single point access manager may have fewer or greater numbers of installed authentication plug in applications that are used for performing authentication.

Identity store API may be configured to interface with one or more identity stores such as identity store . Identity store API may be configured to retrieve username and or password information from identity store in order to authenticate a user. Identity store API may also be configured to retrieve other identity information besides username and password data from identity store . For example identity store may store information such as voice samples user digital certificates fingerprint data retina scan data some other form of biometric input and or generally some other form of data that may be used to authenticate the user. Identity store may be in the form of an active directory. Identity store may be hosted by single point access manager computer system or some other computer system or storage system remote from single point access manager computer system .

Communication between single point access manager computer system and identity store may use network . Network may represent one or more networks including private and or public networks. An example of a public network may be the Internet. An example of a private network may be a corporate intranet. Network may represent the same network or a different network from network .

Each of authentication plug in applications may be able to pass information to a user via a credential collector which presents credential collector interface and or application which presents application interface . An authentication plug in application such as authentication plug in application may pass information to a credential collector via single point access manager to provide a user with information when authentication fails. In such an arrangement a user may have submitted credentials to single point access manager via credential collector interface to a credential collector and network . Using the credentials submitted by the user authentication plug in application may have attempted to authenticate the user. This may involve having identity store API retrieve data corresponding to the user from identity store via network . If the authentication fails authentication plug in application may be configured to pass information to the user via single point access manager network and the credential collector to provide the user with information as to the authentication failure.

To provide the user with information regarding a failed authentication authentication plug in application may use a request parameter that is in the format of to give details about the authentication failure. As example the request parameter that is passed by authentication plug in application to single point access manager may be plugin error response. When single point access manager receives such a parameter from authentication plug in application single point access manager may be configured to pass the parameter to the credential collector providing credential collector interface of client computer system . Single point access manager in some embodiments uses the value of the parameter output by the authentication plug in application to create a message that will be properly displayed to the user by client computer system and credential collector interface .

If authentication by authentication plug in application has succeeded application interface may be presented to the user for use via client computer system . As such credential collector interface may no longer be presented to the user. Rather application interface may be presented to the user via a web browser or some other presentation arrangement. Application interface may be associated with an application executed remote from client computer system . Despite authentication being successful authentication plug in application may have information that is to be passed to the user via single point access manager network client computer system and the application and application interface . To pass information to the user authentication plug in application may use a request parameter that is in the format of to give details about authentication. As example the request parameter that is passed by authentication plug in application to single point access manager may be plugin client response. When single point access manager receives such a parameter from authentication plug in application single point access manager may be configured to pass the value of the parameter to the application associated with application interface being presented by client computer system . Single point access manager in some embodiments uses the value of the parameter output by the authentication plug in application to create a message that will be displayed to the user by client computer system and application interface . As an example of information that may be useful for an authentication plug in application to communicate to the user when authentication is successful may be information regarding when the user will be required to update his or her password. Other examples may be information about the strength of the user s password changes in password policy etc.

It should be understood that while in system of one single point access manager computer system is illustrated it should be understood that similar functions may be performed by multiple computers operating in a distributed computing environment. As such various functions of single point access manager may be performed by different computer systems.

Various authentication schemes may be used by a system for authenticating a user and presenting authentication information to the user. illustrates an embodiment of an authentication scheme . Authentication scheme illustrates an example of how single point access manager of system of may use authentication plug in applications to enforce an authentication scheme.

Application domains may contain each of the resources to which single point access manager is being used to control access. An application domain may be defined for one or more applications to which access is desired to be controlled by a single point access manager. Such applications may be referred to as resources . Policies may be linked to specific resources . As such a particular policy that defines an authentication process may correspond to a particular one or more applications of resources . Within policies may be one or more authentication policies. In the embodiment of two authentication policies are illustrated authentication policy and authentication policy . Authentication policy may correspond upon to one or more different resources of resources from authentication policy .

For each authentication policy such as authentication policy one or more authentication schemes may be used. An authentication scheme may be a shared component that can be reused across multiple authentication policies. As such a particular authentication scheme may be used by both authentication policy and authentication policy . Within authentication schemes such as authentication schemes one or more authentication modules such as authentication modules may be present. An authentication module may be defined as the smallest executable unit of an authentication scheme. As illustrated in system of authentication modules are present in the form of authentication plug in application and authentication plug in application . A single point access manager may permit for use of authentication modules provided with the single point access manager and custom authentication modules. As such an authentication plug in application may be provided as part of single point access manager of or may be customized for a particular business entity.

Based on the environment of the credential collector associated with credential collector interface and the application associated with application interface the operation used to send data from an authentication plug in such as authentication plug in application to either the credential collector or the application may vary. While an interface such as via a web browser presents information in credential collector interface from a credential collector and application interface from an application to the user via client computer system the credential collector and or the application may be executed by a remote computer system such as single point access manager computer system or some other computer system not illustrated . Depending on whether single point access manager computer system or some other computer system is used for execution of the credential collector or the application either a forward or redirect operation may be used.

For example in some situations an HTTP forward operation may be used to send data from an authentication plug in application to a credential collector if the credential collector associated with credential collector interface is deployed within single point access manager computer system in other situations an HTTP redirect operation may be used to send data from an authentication plug in application to the credential collector associated with credential collector interface if the credential collector associated with credential collector interface is deployed outside single point access manager computer system such as on a separate computer system accessible via a different IP address . illustrates an embodiment of a system A for authenticating a user in which the credential collector is executed in a different domain from the single point authentication manager computer system and presenting authentication information to the user. System A may represent system of or some other system configured to authenticate a user and present authentication information to the user.

In system A single point access manager computer system and credential collection computer system which executes credential collector associated with credential collector interface are located in different domains. As an example of when such an arrangement may occur it may be desired that the credential collector be executed by a separate computer system from single point access manager computer system for example security concerns of having a custom application operating on the same server as the single point authentication may exist. Credential collection computer system is located in domain . Single point access manager computer system is located in domain . When information is transmitted from an authentication plug in such as authentication plug in application to either credential collector or an application which may be executed by another computer system in a separate domain not pictured an HTTP redirect may be used for sending the information regarding authentication information to credential collector or the application. An authentication plug in application may have a configuration parameter that defines whether a forward or redirect operation is to be used for transmitting data from the authentication plug in application via single point access manager network to credential collector or an application. Since a configuration parameter of the authentication plug in application defines whether a HTTP redirect is used the authentication plug in application may set the parameter based on whether the credential collector is within or outside of the domain of single point access manager computer system . Based on this parameter the same plug in application may be used for situations when domain is separate from domain and when domain is the same as domain e.g. credential collector is being executed by single point access manager computer system .

Various methods may be performed using the systems of . illustrates an embodiment of a method for presenting information related to a failed authentication to the user attempting to be authenticated. Method may be performed by system of system A of system B of or some other system configured to perform single point authentication information for the user. Means for performing method include computer systems such as computer system of . More specifically means for performing method may include a client computer system one or more networks one or more single point access manager computer systems one or more computer systems executing a credential collector and or one or more identity stores.

At step a request for access to a resource such as an application may be received from a client computer system for a user. The request may be received by a single point access manager. Such a single point access manager may provide authentication services for one or more applications which are executed remotely from the client computer system being used by the user to access the resource. The request for access to the resource may include credentials submitted via a credential collector interface that communicates with a remotely executed credential collector. The credential collector interface may be presented to the user via web browser. As an example of a credential collector interface a webpage may be presented to the user that requests a username and password. Various forms of credentials that may be submitted by a user include but are not limited to a user name a password a biometric sample e.g. a fingerprint voiceprint retina scan etc. a digital certificate or other various types of information that may be used for authentication. Successful authentication may be required for the user to access the resource that the user has requested.

At step it may be determined such as by the single point access manager which authentication scheme possibly selected from a plurality of authentication schemes is associated with the resource being requested by the user. Such a determination may be at least partially based on the request received at step for access to the resource. Referring to an authentication policy such as authentication policy may be associated with a particular resource such as an application of resources . Based on this authentication policy various authentication modules which may be authentication plug in applications may be invoked. Accordingly for the resource requested at step one or more particular authentication plug in applications may be invoked to authenticate the user s access to the requested resource. In some embodiments credentials are only requested from a user after the authentication scheme has been requested at step . In such embodiments as part of step data may be transmitted to the client computer system to request particular credentials from the user such as a username and password from the user. The requested credentials may be received by the single point access manager from the user via the client computer system.

At step at least one authentication plug in application may be invoked for use in authenticating the user. Referring to system of an authentication plug in application such as authentication plug in application may be invoked by single point access manager which is being executed by single point access manager computer system . Authentication plug in application may have been previous installed as a software component to add specific authentication abilities to the single point authentication manager. Authentication of the credentials submitted by the user via credential collector interface and client computer system may be performed using authentication plug in application . For example authentication plug in application may be installed to handle a specific type of username and password authentication.

At step the authentication plug in application may perform authentication of the user using the credentials submitted by the user at either step or step . The authentication plug in application performing authentication may involve using an identity store API of the single point access manager to retrieve stored identity information from either a local or remote identity store for comparison with the received credentials. For example if the credentials submitted by the user are a username and password a stored password associated with the username may be retrieved from the identity store for comparison with the password received from the user. For the purposes of method it is assumed that authentication by the authentication plug in application fails. For example authentication may fail if the password submitted by the user is incorrect the user s account has been locked or otherwise disabled the users password has expired too many attempts have been made for access by the users account the user s account is associated with another active session or the credentials submitted by the user are otherwise invalid.

At step the authentication plug in application through which authentication failed may generate authentication failure information that is to be passed to the user. Such information may be useful to the user in order to remedy why authentication failed. The authentication failure information generated at step may indicate the reason for the authentication failure and or steps for the user to remedy the authentication failure. By way of example only sample authentication failure information may be a string of text that states Your account has been locked due to submission of too many incorrect password attempts please contact your system administrator at 978.555.6134 to unlock your account. The authentication failure information provided by the authentication plug in application may be customized for the authentication plug in application and or the business entity on whose behalf the authentication plug in application is being executed. The authentication failure information generated at step may be in the format of . The parameter may be plugin error response. As such referring back to the previous example a request parameter such as PLUGIN ERROR RESPONSE Your account has been locked due to submission of too many incorrect password attempts please contact your system administrator at 303.555.6134 to unlock your account may be generated by the authentication plug in application. At step the request parameter generated at step may be output by the authentication plug in application to the single point access manager. Referring to system of for example authentication plug in application may pass a request parameter of plugin error response to single point access manager .

At step the single point access manager may receive the request parameter from the authentication plug in application. Based on the name of the request parameter such as plugin error response the single point access manager may perform little or no processing on the request parameter. Rather the single point access manager may be configured such that based on the name of the request parameter the request parameter is passed to the credential collector and then on to the credential collector interface being presented via the client computer system. Accordingly by an authentication plug in application using such a request parameter information may be passed from the authentication plug in application to a user via a credential collector and credential collector interface client computer system network and single point access manager. Therefore at step the request parameter may be transmitted by the single point access manager to the credential collector interface of the client computer system as an HTTP request parameter for display or for some other form of presentation to the user. The webgate which is the filter that the single point access manager uses to authenticate users redirects the user to an URL of the resource when the authentication is complete. The URL used to access the single point access manager and all the request parameters associated with this URL may be discarded after the authentication is complete. Plugin client response is intended to be consumed by the client application therefore any values to be passed to the client application may need to be set in the HTTP header.

At step the content of the request parameter such as the value may be presented by the credential collector and credential collector interface. By presenting the value of the request parameter the user may be able to view the information output by the authentication plug in application. As such referring to the previous example the user may see the message Your account has been locked due to submission of too many incorrect password attempts please contact your system administrator at 303.555.6134 to unlock your account. If the credential collector interface is presented by the client computer system via a web browser the web browser may be used to present the information contained within the request parameter generated by the authentication plug in application.

At step a request for access to a resource such as an application may be received from a client computer system for a user. The request may be received by a single point access manager. Such a single point access manager may provide authentication services for one or more applications which are executed remotely from the client computer system being used by the user to access the resource. The request for access to the resource may include credentials submitted via a credential collector interface to a credential collector. The credential collector interface may be presented to the user via web browser. As an example of a credential collector interface a webpage may be presented to the user that requests a username and password. Various forms of credentials that may be submitted by a user include but are not limited to a user name a password a biometric sample e.g. a fingerprint voiceprint retina scan etc. a digital certificate or other various types of information that may be used for authentication. Successful authentication may be required for the user to access the resource that the user has requested.

At step it may be determined such as by the single point access manager an authentication scheme possibly selected from a plurality of authentication schemes that is associated with the resource being requested by the user. Such a determination may be at least partially based on the request received at step for access to the resource. Referring to an authentication policy such as authentication policy may be associated with a particular resource such as an application of resources . Based on this authentication policy various authentication modules which may be authentication plug in applications may be invoked. Accordingly for the resource requested at step one or more particular authentication plug in applications may be invoked to authenticate the user s access to the requested resource. In some embodiments credentials are only requested from a user after the authentication scheme has been requested at step . In such embodiments as part of step data may be transmitted to the client computer system to request particular credentials from the user such as a username and password from the user. The requested credentials may be received by the single point access manager from the user via the client computer system.

At step at least one authentication plug in application may be invoked for use in authenticating the user. Referring to system of an authentication plug in application such as authentication plug in application may be invoked by single point access manager which is being executed by single point access manager computer system . Authentication plug in application may have been previous installed as a software component to add specific authentication abilities to the single point authentication manager. Authentication of the credentials submitted by the user via credential collector interface and client computer system may be performed using authentication plug in application . For example authentication plug in application may be installed to handle a specific type of username and password authentication.

At step the authentication plug in application may perform authentication of the user using the credentials submitted by the user at either step or step . The authentication plug in application performing authentication may involve using an identity store API of the single point access manager to retrieve stored identity information from either a local or remote identity store for comparison with the received credentials. For example if the credentials submitted by the user via a credential collector interface and credential collector are a username and password a stored password associated with the username may be retrieved from the identity store for comparison with the password received from the user. For the purposes of method it is assumed that authentication by the authentication plug in application is successful. As such for example the username submitted by the user is present within the identity store and is also associated with a stored password that matches a password submitted by the user. Following successful authentication the application or other form of resource requested by the user may be executed and provided to the user such as via a web browser being executed at the client computer system.

At step the authentication plug in application through which authentication succeeded may generate authentication information that is to be passed to the user. Such information may be useful to the user in order to maintain the user s account and or provide the user with information regarding access to the resources. The authentication information generated at step may indicate information about the user s account. By way of example only sample authentication information may be a string of text that states Your password will expire in 14 days please create a new one to prevent your account from being locked. Contact 978.555.2727 with any questions. The authentication information provided by the authentication plug in application may be customized for the authentication plug in application and or the business entity on whose behalf the authentication plug in application is being executed. The authentication information generated at step may be in the format of . The parameter may be plugin client response. As such referring back to the previous example a request parameter such as PLUGIN CLIENT RESPONSE Your password will expire in 14 days please create a new one to prevent your account from being locked. Contact 978.555.2727 with any questions may be generated by the authentication plug in application. At step the parameter generated at step may be output by the authentication plug in application to the single point access manager. Referring to system of for example authentication plug in application may pass a request parameter of plugin client response to single point access manager for output to application interface of client computer system .

At step the single point access manager may receive the request parameter from the authentication plug in application. Based on the name of the request parameter such as plugin client response the single point access manager may perform little or no processing on the request parameter. Rather the single point access manager may be configured such that based on the name of the request parameter the request parameter is passed to the application interface such as via the application interface presented by the client computer system. Information in the request parameter may be sent to the application interface at the client computer system in an HTTP header. Accordingly by an authentication plug in application using such a request parameter information may be passed from the authentication plug in application to a user via an application interface that is being executed at the client computer system following successful authentication. Therefore at step the request parameter may be transmitted by the single point access manager to the application interface being executed at the client computer system as an HTTP header for display or for some other form of presentation to the user.

At step the content of the request parameter such as the value may be presented by the application interface to the user at the client computer system. The request parameter may be displayed within the same web browser window as the application or a different web browser window. By presenting the value of the request parameter received as an HTTP header the user may be able to view the information output by the authentication plug in application. As such referring to the previous example the user may see the message Your password will expire in 14 days please create a new one to prevent your account from being locked. Contact 978.555.2727 with any questions. If the application interface is presented by the client computer system using a web browser the web browser may be used to present the information contained within the request parameter generated by the authentication plug in application.

Depending on the environment of the client computer system being used by the user an HTTP forward request or an HTTP redirect request may be desirable to transmit authentication information generated by the authentication plug in application. A single authentication plug in application may be able to use both HTTP forward requests and HTTP redirect requests based on a configuration parameter that may be set by the single point access manager. As such based on the environment of the credential collector or application such as whether it is within the same domain of the single point access manager computer system or not. Whether an HTTP forward or redirect is to be used for transmitting data from the single point access manager to the client computer system via the credential collector or application may be determined. illustrates an embodiment of a method for forwarding or redirecting authentication information to the user. Method may be performed by system of system A of system B of or some other system configured to perform single point authentication information for the user. Means for performing method include computer systems such as computer system of . More specifically means for performing method may include a client computer system one or more networks one or more single point access manager computer systems and or one or more identity stores. Method may be performed as part of method or method of respectively.

At step a determination may be made as to the environment of the credential collector or application being executed. The determination may be made by the single point access manager. The two environments that may be identified during the determination of step may be whether the credential collector or application is within the same domain as the single point access manager computer system or outside of the domain of the single point access manager computer system. Referring to the credential collector is outside of the domain of the single point access manager computer system. As an example of when this may occur a credential collector may be executed by a separate computer system. Accordingly the credential collector is in a separate domain from the single point access manager computer system. Referring to the credential collector is within the same domain as the single point access manager computer system. As an example of when this may occur a credential collector may be executed by the single point access manager computer system. In such an arrangement the credential collector may be considered within the same domain as the single point access manager computer system. The determination of whether a credential collector or application is within the same domain or outside the domain of the single point access manager computer system may be based on IP address of the credential collector or application. The determination of step may be performed by a single point access manager.

If the environment of the credential collector or application is determined to be external to the domain of the single point access manager computer system method may proceed to step . At step a configuration parameter may be passed by the single point access manager to the authentication plug in application that indicates the credential collector or application is external to the domain of the single point access manager computer system. At least partially based on this configuration parameter at step the response to the client computer system may be formatted to be sent via the credential collector or application using an HTTP redirect operation.

At step authentication information or authentication failure information may be sent to the client computer system by the single point access manager using an HTTP redirect via the credential collector or application. As such the request parameter output by the authentication plug in application may be output in the form of an HTTP redirect for transmission to the client computer system via the credential collector or application. The HTTP redirect may require the client computer system to request a new URL which may contain the authentication information that is to be provided to the user. As such the authentication information output by the authentication plug in application to the single point access manager may not be presented to the user until the browser of the client computer system loads a new URL provided as part of an HTTP redirect request sent by the single point access manager to the client computer system.

If the environment of the credential collector or application is determined to be internal to the domain of the single point access manager computer system method may proceed to step . At step a configuration parameter may be passed by the single point access manager to the authentication plug in application that indicates the credential collector or application is executed internal to the domain of the single point access manager computer system. At least partially based on this configuration parameter at step the response to the client computer system may be formatted to be sent using an HTTP forward operation.

At step authentication information or authentication failure information may be sent to the client computer system by the single point access manager using an HTTP forward via the credential collector or application. As such the request parameter output by the authentication plug in application may be output in the form of an HTTP forward for transmission to the client computer system via the credential collector or application. Accordingly the URL loaded by a web browser of the client may not change but information to be displayed or otherwise presented to the user by the web browser may be sent to the client computer system by the single point access manager.

The computer system is shown comprising hardware elements that can be electrically coupled via a bus or may otherwise be in communication as appropriate . The hardware elements may include one or more processors including without limitation one or more general purpose processors and or one or more special purpose processors such as digital signal processing chips graphics acceleration processors and or the like one or more input devices which can include without limitation a mouse a keyboard and or the like and one or more output devices which can include without limitation a display device a printer and or the like.

The computer system may further include and or be in communication with one or more non transitory storage devices which can comprise without limitation local and or network accessible storage and or can include without limitation a disk drive a drive array an optical storage device a solid state storage device such as a random access memory RAM and or a read only memory ROM which can be programmable flash updateable and or the like. Such storage devices may be configured to implement any appropriate data stores including without limitation various file systems database structures and or the like.

The computer system might also include a communications subsystem which can include without limitation a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device a wireless communication device and or a chipset such as a Bluetooth device an 802.11 device a WiFi device a WiMax device cellular communication facilities etc. and or the like. The communications subsystem may permit data to be exchanged with a network such as the network described below to name one example other computer systems and or any other devices described herein. In many embodiments the computer system will further comprise a working memory which can include a RAM or ROM device as described above.

The computer system also can comprise software elements shown as being currently located within the working memory including an operating system device drivers executable libraries and or other code such as one or more application programs which may comprise computer programs provided by various embodiments and or may be designed to implement methods and or configure systems provided by other embodiments as described herein. Merely by way of example one or more procedures described with respect to the method s discussed above might be implemented as code and or instructions executable by a computer and or a processor within a computer in an aspect then such code and or instructions can be used to configure and or adapt a general purpose computer or other device to perform one or more operations in accordance with the described methods.

A set of these instructions and or code might be stored on a non transitory computer readable storage medium such as the non transitory storage device s described above. In some cases the storage medium might be incorporated within a computer system such as computer system . In other embodiments the storage medium might be separate from a computer system e.g. a removable medium such as a compact disc and or provided in an installation package such that the storage medium can be used to program configure and or adapt a general purpose computer with the instructions code stored thereon. These instructions might take the form of executable code which is executable by the computer system and or might take the form of source and or installable code which upon compilation and or installation on the computer system e.g. using any of a variety of generally available compilers installation programs compression decompression utilities etc. then takes the form of executable code.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that substantial variations may be made in accordance with specific requirements. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets etc. or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

As mentioned above in one aspect some embodiments may employ a computer system such as the computer system to perform methods in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. According to a set of embodiments some or all of the procedures of such methods are performed by the computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions which might be incorporated into the operating system and or other code such as an application program contained in the working memory . Such instructions may be read into the working memory from another computer readable medium such as one or more of the non transitory storage device s . Merely by way of example execution of the sequences of instructions contained in the working memory might cause the processor s to perform one or more procedures of the methods described herein.

The terms machine readable medium and computer readable medium as used herein refer to any medium that participates in providing data that causes a machine to operate in a specific fashion. In an embodiment implemented using the computer system various computer readable media might be involved in providing instructions code to processor s for execution and or might be used to store and or carry such instructions code. In many implementations a computer readable medium is a physical and or tangible storage medium. Such a medium may take the form of a non volatile media or volatile media. Non volatile media include for example optical and or magnetic disks such as the non transitory storage device s . Volatile media include without limitation dynamic memory such as the working memory .

Common forms of physical and or tangible computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punchcards papertape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read instructions and or code.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to the processor s for execution. Merely by way of example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk and or optical disc of a remote computer. A remote computer might load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions as signals over a transmission medium to be received and or executed by the computer system .

The communications subsystem and or components thereof generally will receive signals and the bus then might carry the signals and or the data instructions etc. carried by the signals to the working memory from which the processor s retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by the working memory may optionally be stored on a non transitory storage device either before or after execution by the processor s .

The methods systems and devices discussed above are examples. Various configurations may omit substitute or add various procedures or components as appropriate. For instance in alternative configurations the methods may be performed in an order different from that described and or various stages may be added omitted and or combined. Also features described with respect to certain configurations may be combined in various other configurations. Different aspects and elements of the configurations may be combined in a similar manner. Also technology evolves and thus many of the elements are examples and do not limit the scope of the disclosure or claims.

Specific details are given in the description to provide a thorough understanding of example configurations including implementations . However configurations may be practiced without these specific details. For example well known circuits processes algorithms structures and techniques have been shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the configurations. This description provides example configurations only and does not limit the scope applicability or configurations of the claims. Rather the preceding description of the configurations will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing described techniques. Various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure.

Also configurations may be described as a process which is depicted as a flow diagram or block diagram. Although each may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be rearranged. A process may have additional steps not included in the figure. Furthermore examples of the methods may be implemented by hardware software firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages or any combination thereof. When implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a non transitory computer readable medium such as a storage medium. Processors may perform the described tasks.

Having described several example configurations various modifications alternative constructions and equivalents may be used without departing from the spirit of the disclosure. For example the above elements may be components of a larger system wherein other rules may take precedence over or otherwise modify the application of the invention. Also a number of steps may be undertaken before during or after the above elements are considered. Accordingly the above description does not bound the scope of the claims.

