---

title: Method and system of publishing campaign data
abstract: One embodiment of the invention provides a method of publishing campaign metadata from a database to a plurality of channel systems, the method includes: querying the database to select campaign metadata ready for publishing to a target channel system; selecting the target channel system from a plurality of channel systems based on an target indicating attribute of the campaign metadata; determining whether the target channel system has a SOAP enabled webservice API or whether the target channel system only accepts HTTP posts; if the target channel system has a SOAP enabled webservice API, packaging the campaign metadata as an XML message object; if the target channel system only accepts HTTP posts, packaging the campaign metadata as an HTML request; and transferring the packaged campaign metadata to the target channel system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09454770&OS=09454770&RS=09454770
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 09454770
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141117
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the benefit of priority under to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 583 563 filed on Oct. 19 2006 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present application relates generally to the technical field of data publishing and more particularly to systems for publishing marketing campaign data from a database to campaign distribution systems.

With the development of network technologies business users may use networks and communication links to carry marketing campaigns to prospective customers.

Campaign generation systems allow business users to create edit and save or store campaign metadata. Channel systems such as for example email direct mail website advertising placements website email and outbound call systems are normally used by business users to distribute campaign information to potential customers. The channel systems can be owned and managed by different facilities.

Current campaign generation systems may have insufficient integration capabilities to send both campaign user lists and campaign information which often includes offer metadata to downstream channel systems or content editing systems. Because of this a business user may have to create campaign related information in the campaign generation system and then login to the downstream systems recreate the campaign related information and then trigger the distribution of the campaigns to the targeted customers. Improved systems would eliminate duplicate data entry prevent data errors increase productivity of business users and shorten delays in campaign delivery to target customers.

Example methods and systems to publish campaign and related user lists to potential customers are described. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of example embodiments. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details.

Embodiments of the invention can publish campaign related metadata created by marketer business users to potential customers. As used herein campaign information is marketing material sent to segmented customers with the goal of influencing the segmented customers behavior e.g. attracting the segmented customers to buy a manufacturer s specific products. As used herein metadata is data that defines other data. As used herein user lists are lists that uniquely identify customers targeted for marketing campaigns.

The embodiments of the invention can determine how to package the campaign metadata based on the configurations and requirements of the target channel systems. Embodiments of the invention can also be used to validate the user lists which will be sent to potential customers.

In an embodiment the campaign publishing system communicates over direct connections or networked connections to a campaign generation system and several channel systems . While embodiments of the present invention are described within the context of the campaign generation system and several content editing systems and channel systems it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that embodiments of the invention include many different types of campaign generation systems channel systems and content management systems.

In some embodiments the campaign generation system is a system which is available in the market for example Unica Affinium Campaign of Unica Co. Channel systems are systems for distribution of email and direct mail eBay website advertising placement on eBay.com and eBay MyMessages on eBay.com which may be available in the market or have been custom built by eBay.com. In an embodiment the channel system is a CRM Customer Relationship Management system used to track and manage inbound and outbound phone calls which is a product of SaleForce.com. In another embodiment the channel system is a CRM system used to track and manage inbound and outbound phone calls e.g. Siebel CRM and Oracle CRM.

In an embodiment the campaign publishing system may access a database as shown in . The campaign publishing system reads from and writes to the database which includes tables . The campaign publishing system also creates and writes to flat files . In some embodiments flat files are stored in the campaign generation system . In some other embodiments flat files are stored in the database . Tables are used to store metadata of a marketing campaign for example offer details user information and user campaign contact history. A flat file is used to store customer data e.g. potential target customer information for a marketing campaign.

Before publishing the campaign metadata and user lists to a plurality of systems via the campaign publishing system a campaign marketer may prepare marketing campaign related data by utilizing a campaign generation system . The campaign marketer may log into the campaign generation system through a client computer which communicates with the campaign generation system through networks not shown . For example the campaign marketer may enter update and save campaign and offer metadata to relevant tables in the database .

For instance assume that a campaign marketer wants to create a new marketing campaign which is to be sent to all eBay customers who have purchased a toy on eBay.com in the last 3 months. The marketing campaign is to be sent through an eBay channel system for example one which is responsible for sending email campaigns to eBay customers. In some embodiments the marketing campaign is also intended to be sent to an external company responsible for sending postal direct mail campaigns to eBay customers. In some embodiments the campaign is to be sent to customer support systems for use in outbound telephone calls to eBay customers. In some embodiments the campaign is to be displayed as marketing advertisements to targeted customers on eBay.com.

The campaign marketer may create a new campaign by using a campaign creation page in the campaign generation system and then save the campaign in a campaign table . After the creation of the metadata for the campaign in some circumstances the campaign marketer may update it by changing the status of a campaign from New to Ready to Publish and saving the campaign.

In some embodiments the campaign marketer may use the campaign generation system to create and save a flowchart in the campaign generation system . A flowchart corresponds to a query or series of consecutive queries to the database which can be performed by using conventional DBMS skills to meet certain business requirements. For example in some embodiments the campaign marketer may choose to build a flowchart which contains a query to the user information table. In some embodiments the campaign marketer may select all buyers who have opted out of email communications. The campaign marketer may merge the two selects together so the resulting output is the intersect of all toys buyers minus all who have opted out. After that the campaign marketer may feed this result into a sample box which will allow for segmenting and uniquely tracking members of a holdout population who are eligible but will not be sent the communication in order for the business to calculate changes in customer behavior due to a campaign.

In some embodiments the campaign generation system may allow a campaign marketer to create user lists and to merge different customer segments e.g. all customers who bought in the Toys category on eBay with all customers who live in California as well as exclude segments e.g. remove all customers who bought in the Apparel category to generate a final list of customers and their email addresses. The user list can be the output of the campaign generation system .

In an embodiment at the method initiates the process of publishing campaign metadata. In an embodiment for all campaigns the campaign marketer initiates the process of publishing campaign metadata by saving a campaign with an attribute of ready to publish . The campaign is saved in the database and the campaign generation system . In an embodiment a campaign flowchart is saved in the campaign generation system .

In an embodiment a campaign flowchart is run once from the campaign generation system . In another embodiment an external system calls the campaign generation system by using an exposed API of the campaign generation system to run the campaign flowchart . In an embodiment the call is done daily for a campaign for example Welcome new eBay users campaign which is sent to all newly registered users each night.

In an embodiment metadata is published by saving the campaign and setting the channel attribute e.g. email mail phone to ready to publish . The publishing is only done once per campaign unless it is intended to update metadata e.g. to change the end date of the campaign.

At the campaign publishing system queries a campaign table in the database to select campaign metadata with status ready to publish . Each campaign metadata includes a channel indicator attribute to indicate a target channel system thus the campaign publishing system knows to which one of the channel systems to publish the selected campaign metadata.

At the campaign publishing system selects a target channel system from a plurality of channel systems based on the target indicator attribute of the campaign metadata.

At the campaign publishing system determines whether the target channel system has a SOAP Simple Object Access Protocol enabled webservice API Application Programming Interface or whether the target channel system only accepts HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol posts.

At if the campaign publishing system determines that the target channel system has a SOAP enabled webservice API then at the campaign publishing system packages the campaign metadata as an XML message object. XML is Extensible Markup Language.

Otherwise at if the campaign publishing system determines that the target channel system only accepts HTTP posts then at the campaign publishing system packages the campaign metadata as an HTML request. HTML is Hypertext Markup Language.

At the campaign publishing system transfers all the packaged campaign metadata to the target channel systems . In some embodiments the campaign publishing system transfers the XML message object to the target channel system using SOAP over HTTP protocol. In some embodiments the campaign publishing system transfers the HTML request to the target channel system over HTTP protocol.

In an embodiment after the campaign publishing system aggregates one or more offers and corresponding metadata to the selected campaign and campaign metadata. In an embodiment the campaign publishing system handles system errors of each step by sending email alerts to a support team and logging system errors to log files.

In an embodiment after the campaign metadata has been transferred successfully the campaign publishing system updates the status of all the transferred campaign metadata in the database to successful to identify that such campaign metadata has been transferred successfully.

In an embodiment for a one time campaign sent only once to customers at the campaign marketer initiates the process of publishing user lists for a marketing campaign by running a flowchart . In some embodiments the flowchart is saved in the campaign publishing system . In other embodiments the flowchart is saved in the database .

In another embodiment at for a recurring campaign the process of publishing user lists for a marketing campaign is initiated by a cron job in a constant period of time e.g. weekly daily or every 5 minutes. In an embodiment the cron job is located within campaign publishing system . In another embodiment the cron job is located in an external system e.g. campaign generation system .

At the campaign publishing system queries the database to obtain user lists of customer data meeting certain business requirements. In an embodiment the user list obtained is associated to a campaign which has campaign metadata. The campaign metadata includes a channel indicator attribute e.g. KC1 to indicate a target channel system accordingly the campaign publishing system uses this channel indicator attribute to identify which of the channel systems to publish a selected user list.

At the campaign publishing system selects a target channel system based on the channel indicator attribute included in the campaign metadata.

At the campaign publishing system uses internal configuration properties to determine whether or not the target channel system has a SOAP enabled webservice API.

If it is SOAP enabled the campaign publishing system writes the user list to an XML file at validates the XML file at and transfers the packaged user list to the target channel system at using SOAP over HTTP protocol.

If it is not SOAP enabled the campaign publishing system writes the user list to a flat file at validates the flat file at validates the associated campaign metadata at and transfers the user list to the target channel system by copying the flat file to the target channel system via SCP at . SCP is Secure Copying Protocol.

At and mentioned above the campaign publishing system validates the XML file and the flat file . In some embodiments the publishing process will be aborted and an email alert will be sent to a system administrator if the campaign publishing system finds any of the following cases exists 1 The XML file or flat file is empty 2 The XML file or flat file does not contain all required fields for the targeted channel system and 3 Any of the required fields in the XML file or flat file is not in valid format. For example no spaces or invalid characters exist in the following fields of the XML file or flat file email address address city state address1 and address2 offer version Segment ID. In an embodiment if any of the invalidations in the XML file or flat file is found the campaign publishing system will stop the publishing process and will send errors to an administrator.

In an embodiment at mentioned above the campaign publishing system validates if the metadata of the flat file matches the metadata of the associated campaign which has been successfully published to the target channel system . If they do not match in an embodiment the campaign publishing system will send errors to an administrator.

At after transferring the user list to the target channel system the campaign publishing system writes the user list to a contact history table. In some embodiments the contact history table is saved in the marketing database for reporting and for customer suppression in subsequent marketing campaigns.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

The software may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic media and carrier wave signals.

Below is a specific example to illustrate how to use an embodiment of the campaign publishing system to publish a marketing campaign to potential customers.

A campaign marketer logs in to the campaign generation system navigates to a campaign created earlier opens the campaign flowchart and selects Edit . Then the marketer edits the flowchart. For example the campaign marketer builds customer segments via a query to the user information table according to the business requirements for certain marketing purposes. The campaign marketer also selects all buyers who have opted out of email communication. The campaign marketer merges the two selects together so the resulting output is intersects of all ebay.com toys buyers minus all opt outs. The campaign marketer feeds this result into a sample box which allows the marketer to segment out a holdout population. The holdout population is a group of customers who are selectively removed from the campaign in order for eBay to evaluate the effectiveness of the campaign e.g. the amount of purchases by customers who were eligible and did receive the campaign versus the amount of purchases by customers that were eligible but did not receive campaign. The campaign marketer selects two mail list boxes and in the first named email output assigns the previously created email offers to the Toys customer segment. The campaign marketer uses the second titled postal output and assigns the postal offer to the same segment of Toys customers. The campaign marketer uses a third mail list box to represent the hold out segment and assigns the Holdout offer to the holdout segment.

At this point the flowchart is built and when run will query the database for the customer segment according to requirements. The flowchart will assign offers to resulting segments output the segments to the contact history table and create flat files for the email and direct mail user lists. The campaign marketer saves the flowchart and returns to the campaign summary page. On the campaign summary page the campaign marketer changes the EMS eBay Marketing System Publish Trigger from New to Ready for Publish and saves the campaign. This updates the data from New to Ready in a table which can be used to trigger to publish a campaign for example the table UAC CAMPAIGN.EMS PUBLISH TRIGGER.

The campaign publishing system is called every 5 minutes by a cron job process. The process calls the campaign publishing system which queries the database and reads from the UAC CAMPAIGN.EMS PUBLISH TRIGGER field for all records that are Ready campaigns in a status of Ready for Publish . In this case it will find the above campaign in a status of ready and campaign publishing system will follow logic specific to an eBay Marketing System in order to build the related Campaign and Offer metadata and send using XML over SOAP to the external EMS system. The campaign marketer is able to see the transfer was successful by refreshing their browser on the campaign summary page. If successful campaign publishing system will write a status message to a field of a table for example UAC CAMPAIGN which is read by a campaign generation system and displayed on the campaign summary page in the EMS success message field for example EMS Transfer Successful .

EMS is used for email content creation and an EMS user updates a Program created by the campaign metadata sent over from campaign publishing system . For example the Program name will be created with Campaign Name the start date and end date will be as indicated in the campaign metadata. In addition the Offers sent from campaign publishing system will appear as codes which can be appended to the URLs within the campaign content. Using the descriptive Offer Names the EMS user knows to assign the US ToysNewHotItem 08162006 JP offer code to the links specific to the Toy s Content or image. Same for the Apparel content or image. The EMS user will finalize the email content save and send to the Email channel systems using FTP File Transfer Protocol for subsequent launch.

Now that the content is ready all pre steps have been completed the user can transfer the campaign metadata to the email and postal channel and run the campaign e.g. run the flowchart . The user will login to the campaign generation system and navigate to the US ToysMonthlyBuyer 08162006 JP campaign and select edit. On the campaign summary page the user will change the value of Kana Publish Trigger from New to Ready to Publish and select Save. This will change a corresponding value in the field from New to Ready.

A cron job is constantly running calling the campaign publishing system to scan the UAC CAMPAIGN.Kana Publish trigger table for all Kana publish trigger ready . If found the campaign publishing system will query for all related metadata and package the corresponding xml for the channel. In this case channel is KC1 eBay.com has three email systems KC1 KC2 KC3 . The campaign publishing system will initiate a Web Service call passing the metadata as well formed XML to the email system s Web Service API. The user is able to see the transfer was successful by refreshing their browser on the campaign summary page. If successful the campaign publishing system will write a status message to the UAC CAMPAIGN.KANA SUCCESS MESSAGE field which is read by campaign generation system and displayed on the campaign summary page in the Kana Success Message Field for example Kana Successful Transfer .

The campaign marketer user can then navigate to the campaign flowchart and select Run . This will cause the campaign generation system to run the flowchart which executes the pre built queries against the database tables pulls the matching users and writes the user list to a flat file for Email and a different flat file for Postal as well as to the UAC CONTACT HISTORY table. Upon completion the campaign generation system will make a call to the channel publishing system to do two things. First validate the content of the flat files meets business requirements. Second transfer the validated flat files to the corresponding channel systems.

The campaign publishing system performs validation on both flat files making sure that the flat files are not empty there are no abnormal characters in the fields the flat files are delimited correctly and the metadata in the flat files matches the metadata associated to the campaign. If all these checks pass the flat files are transferred using Secure Copy Protocol SCP from the server of campaign publishing system to the KC1 email server and to the Postal server respectfully.

At this point the user may navigate to the email system find the corresponding campaign associate the finished campaign content sent earlier from EMS and launch the campaign. This causes the email system to send out email content to all customers on the campaign user list. Concurrently an external postal catalog publisher may take the campaign publishing system postal flat file and use the corresponding customer name and addresses in this file for an eBay Catalog. The content of the catalog may be provided by a external vendor and the postal catalog publisher will use their processes to associate customer name and address to catalog and send via postal mail. Thus the campaign will be published to the potential customers.

Thus a method and a system to publish campaign metadata related to marketing campaigns and customer user lists to channel systems has been described. Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

