---

title: Proximity-based service registration method and related apparatus
abstract: A Proximity-based Service (ProSe) registration method for a user equipment (UE) of a wireless communication system, used in a Mobility Management Entity (MME) of the wireless communication system is disclosed. The method includes: receiving an attach request or a tracking area update request for requesting ProSe UE registration from the UE; retrieving ProSe subscription information and ProSe preference settings related to the UE from a home subscriber server (HSS) of the wireless communication system and storing the ProSe subscription information and the ProSe preference settings related to the UE as a ProSe context of the UE; and transmitting a ProSe registration request including a ProSe identifier of the UE and the ProSe preference settings related to the UE to a ProSe server of the wireless communication system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09374699&OS=09374699&RS=09374699
owner: HTC CORPORATION
number: 09374699
owner_city: Taoyuan
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20140514
---
The present application is based on claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 822 929 filed on May 14 2013 the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.

Aspects of the present invention relate generally to a method for wireless communications systems and more particularly to a Proximity based Service ProSe registration method for ProSe device registration and ProSe application user registration in wireless communications systems.

In a typical mobile communications environment a user equipment UE device such as a mobile phone also known as a cellular or cell phone a laptop computer with wireless communications capability or a personal digital assistant PDA etc. may communicate voice and or data signals with one or more service networks. The wireless communications between the UE and the service networks may be in compliance with various wireless technologies. Long term evolution LTE initiated by the third generation partnership project 3GPP is now being regarded as a new radio interface and radio network architecture that provides a high data rate low latency packet optimization and improved system capacity and coverage. An evolution of core network with non radio access aspects known as System Architecture Evolution SAE is also initiated by 3GPP in accompanying with LTE.

Evolved Packet System EPS is a purely IP based network consisting of UEs a LTE radio access network known as Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN and a SAE core network known as Evolved Packet Core EPC . The EPS uses the concept of EPS bearers to route IP traffic from a gateway in external packet data networks to the UE. A bearer is an IP packet flow with a specific Quality of Service QoS between the gateway and the UE. The E UTRAN is simply a network of plurality of evolved Node Bs eNBs generating a flat architecture and there is no centralized intelligent controller. The eNBs are normally inter connected via the X2 interface and towards the EPC by the S1 interface. The EPC includes a Mobility Management Entity MME a Home Subscriber Server HSS a serving gateway SGW and a packet data network gateway PDN GW or PGW . The MME deals with the control plane. It handles the signalling related to mobility and security for E UTRAN access. The MME is responsible for the tracking and the paging of UE in idle mode. It is the termination point of the Non Access Stratum NAS . The MME handles bearer management and connection management. The HSS is a database that contains user related and subscriber related information. The HSS also provides support functions in mobility management call and session setup user authentication and access authorization. The Serving GW is the point of interconnect between the radio side and the EPC and it serves the UE by routing the incoming and outgoing IP packets. The PDN GW is the point of interconnect between the EPC and external IP networks called PDN Packet Data Network and it routes packets to and from the PDNs.

A long term evolution advanced LTE A system as its name implies is an evolution of the LTE system and has a similar network structure to the LTE system. In LTE related systems Proximity based Service ProSe communication has been developed as a technology which allows UEs to communicate directly with each other in close proximity without transmitting receiving data and or control signals to the other via an eNB which means a local or direct path can be used between the UEs. Therefore in the 3GPP LTE spectrum the operator can move the data path i.e. user plane off the access to core networks to direct links between the UEs. Please note that the procedure for a UE registers for ProSe to the EPC is called ProSe UE registration or ProSe device registration and the procedure for a ProSe application user registers to an application server is called ProSe application user registration also called ProSe application registration or ProSe user registration in short.

When a user of the UE registers with an application server for a ProSe application he she is designated an application identifier and one application is identified by an application identifier . Regarding ProSe user registration on the UEs there are three cases to be considered as shown in C. It should be noted that a user of the UE e.g. the owner of a mobile phone or a laptop may install multiple ProSe applications on his her ProSe enabled UE. The user may have one or more registered user accounts i.e. user identifiers user IDs for each application.

In Case of two applications are running on a user equipment UE managed provided by different application servers AppServer and AppServer and the user of UE may have two user IDs User A and User A for the two applications respectively registered with AppServer and AppServer .

In Case of only one application is running on UE and managed provided by an application server AppServer and the user of UE has two user IDs User A and User B for the same application both registered with AppServer .

In Case of the user has two user equipments UE and UE e.g. a mobile phone and a laptop running the same application managed by AppServer and the user has one user ID User A registered with AppServer for the same application running on both UE and UE.

However some problems may be encountered while EPS deals with device UE registration and user registration when applying ProSe. For example how EPS recognizes a ProSe enabled UE with a device identifier and one or more application level user identifiers such as User A and User B in how EPS manages these identifiers how EPS uses a temporary identifier for the ProSe service operated on a ProSe enabled UE and so on are indefinite. Therefore a registration method for ProSe UE registration and ProSe user registration to solve these problems is required.

A detailed description is given in the following embodiments with reference to the accompanying drawings.

A Proximity based Service ProSe registration method and a Proximity based Service ProSe de registration method for an application user of a user equipment UE or a user equipment UE of a wireless communication system are provided.

In one exemplary embodiment the invention is directed to a Proximity based Service ProSe registration method for a user equipment UE of a wireless communication system used in a Mobility Management Entity MME of the wireless communication system comprising receiving an attach request or a tracking area update request for requesting ProSe UE registration from the UE retrieving ProSe subscription information and ProSe preference settings related to the UE from a home subscriber server HSS of the wireless communication system and storing the ProSe subscription information and the ProSe preference settings related to the UE as a ProSe context of the UE and transmitting a ProSe registration request including a ProSe identifier of the UE and the ProSe preference settings related to the UE to a ProSe server of the wireless communication system.

In one exemplary embodiment the invention is directed to a Proximity based Service ProSe registration method for an application user of a user equipment UE used in a ProSe server of a wireless communications system comprising receiving a ProSe service request including a ProSe identifier identifying the UE an application server identifier uniquely identifying an application and or an application user identifier of the application user from the application server wherein the ProSe service request from the application server is sent in response to a user registration request including the ProSe identifier and the application user identifier from the UE transmitting an authorization request including the application server identifier to a home subscriber server HSS of the wireless communications system after the ProSe service request is received for requesting the authorization to the application server checking if the ProSe identifier is registered by an MME of the wireless communications system and transmitting a ProSe service response message including an authorization result indicating the authorization is successful to the application server after the ProSe server determines that the authorization is successful.

In one exemplary embodiment the invention is directed to a Proximity based Service ProSe de registration method for a user equipment UE used in a Mobility Management Entity MME of a wireless communication system comprising detecting that a user equipment UE registered to a ProSe server is detached for a ProSe service and transmitting a first message including a ProSe identifier identifying the UE to the ProSe server for notifying the ProSe server to de register the UE from the ProSe server.

A detailed description is given in the following embodiments with reference to the accompanying drawings.

Several exemplary embodiments of the application are described with reference to to which generally relate to a proximity based service ProSe registration method for device registration and user registration and a wireless communications system.

The following description is of the best contemplated mode of carrying out the invention. This description is made for the purpose of illustrating the general principles of the invention and should not be taken in a limiting sense. It should be understood that the embodiments may be realized in software hardware firmware or any combination thereof. Note that the 3GPP specifications described herein are used to teach the spirit of the invention and the invention is not limited thereto.

In 3GPP specifications a base station is typically referred to as a Node B an evolved or enhanced Node B eNB a home enhanced or evolved Node B HeNB or some other similar terminology. As the scope of the invention should not be limited to 3GPP standards the terms base station Node B eNB and HeNB may be used interchangeably herein to mean the more general term base station. Furthermore the term base station may be used to denote an access point. An access point may be an electronic device that provides access to a network e.g. Local Area Network LAN the Internet etc. for wireless communication devices. The term communication device may be used to denote a wireless communication device and or a base station. The term application shown in the description means a ProSe application as the application which supports ProSe functionality.

Application server identifier APPServer ID an identifier of an application server one application server identifier may associate with one or more App IDs. The following examples assume one to one mapping for an APPServer ID and an App ID.

ProSe server identifier ProSe server ID an identifier of a ProSe server which can also be the address of the ProSe server.

Application user identifier User ID a user account belonging to a user wherein the user may have one or more User IDs registered for an application in other words one or more User IDs are associated with one App ED as the example of in which User A and User B is registered for the same application provided by AppServer .

The E UTRAN includes one or more base stations evolved Node Bs eNB which provides a user plane and a control plane and the eNB communicates with each UE e.g. UE and the UE via LTE Uu interfaces. The UEs and communicate with each other via a ProSe Uu interface. The core network the EPC controls the UEs and manages establishment of the bearers and includes a Mobility Management Entity MME a serving gateway SGW a packet data network gateway PGW a Policy and Charging Rules Function PCRF a Home subscriber Server HSS a ProSe server and an application server etc. The MME the SGW and the PGW can be implemented in a gateway box. In some embodiments the SGW and PGW can be implemented on separate network devices.

The MME provides mobility management and session management on UEs by control plane signaling using Non Access Stratum NAS protocols where the NAS packets is transported over S1 MME interfaces between the MME and the eNB . The MME and the SOW communicate with each other via a S11 interface. The SOW forwards and receives packets to and from the eNB via an S1 u interface. The S1 u interface supports per bearer user plane tunneling and inter eNB path switching during handover.

The PGW is connected to an external packet network e.g. the Internet or operator s IP service center via a SGi interface and is connected to the SOW via an S5 interface. The PGW serves IP address allocation for the UEs as well as QoS enforcement and flow based charging according to rules from the PCRF . The POW also serves as the mobility anchor for inter working with non 3GPP technologies such as CDMA2000 and WiMAX networks.

The PCRF communicates with the POW via a Gx interface and communicates with the operator s IP service center via an Rx interface. The PCRF serves to perform policy control decision making as well as for controlling the flow based charging functionalities.

The HSS is connected to the MME via an s6a interface and stores subscriber data for each subscriber in the EPS . The subscriber data includes ProSe subscription information related ProSe preference settings a subscription profile authentication vectors and a list of allowed Access Point Names APNs for each subscriber. Each APN has a list of allowed PGWs for the subscriber. An APN may be considered as the network name e.g. Internet corporate intranet etc. associated with a particular packet data network PDN .

The ProSe server communicates with the MME via an Sx interface which transfers ProSe related subscription information in the corresponding PLMN communicates with the HSS via an Sz interface which transfers ProSe related subscription and authentication data for authenticating authorizing user access to the ProSe services and communicates with the application server via an Sy interface. The ProSe server supports ProSe operations and is responsible for ProSe registration control and authorization charging and parameterization. For example the ProSe server authorizes the UE and the UE to use the ProSe service such as to transmit receive data or signaling directly with each other and to use any other features provided by the ProSe server . For example a ProSe service can be a ProSe communication or a ProSe direct discovery.

The application server communicates with the ProSe server for ProSe application user registration a.k.a. user registration authorization and control of the third party application access to the ProSe services via the Sy interface.

The application layer performs signaling data media information exchange via user plane messages between the UE and the network. It is required that the UE has IP connectivity with the network. For example if a user plane interface is applied between a UE and a ProSe server the UE needs to obtain IP connectivity and then it can start to communicate with the ProSe server. The layer 3 NAS handles the mobility management e.g. to exchange location information and attachment status and session management and communications between the MME and the UEs by NAS messages.

Please note that in the following embodiments a ProSe service established between the UEs takes a ProSe communication which means two UEs have ongoing data signal transmission in between as an example for simplicity. However the ProSe communication is not the only ProSe service that UEs can use other ProSe services such as ProSe discovery in which the UE discovers the other UEs in proximity can also be the service referenced in the following embodiment.

After the ProSe server has successfully received the ProSe registration request the ProSe server then stores the received information including the ProSe identifier and the related ProSe preference settings and determines if the ProSe UE registration is successful. The ProSe server may transmit a response indicating that the ProSe UE registration is successful or unsuccessful to the MME in response to the ProSe registration request.

After the ProSe server determines that the ProSe UE registration is successful in step S the MME receives a ProSe registration accept message from the ProSe server. Finally in step S the MME transmits an Attach accept or a TAU accept including the allocated ProSe ID to the UE so that the UE is able to store the ProSe ID of its own. The Attach accept or TAU accept may include information indicating an update type and the corresponding update type is EPS and ProSe registration when the ProSe UE registration is regarded successful.

Otherwise after receiving the ProSe registration request from the MME the ProSe server may determine that the ProSe UE registration is unsuccessful and reject the ProSe UE registration by sending a response message with cause value indicating the rejection reason. In this situation as in step S the MME receives a ProSe registration reject message from the ProSe server. The ProSe registration reject message may indicate the reason that results in the rejection e.g. congestion is occurring in the system the indicated ProSe service is not authorized the PLMN is not allowed or the ProSe server has run out of memory etc. After in step S the MME also transmits an Attach accept or a TAU accept to the UE but not including the ProSe ID of the UE such that UE is informed that the ProSe UE registration is rejected. In this case the corresponding update type indicated by the Attach accept or TAU accept may be EPS only since ProSe UE registration fails.

In the embodiment the ProSe identifier is allocated by the MME. The ProSe identifier is a temporary UE identifier which identifies the UE enabling the ProSe feature where the ProSe identifier can be a Globally Unique Temporary Identity GUTI or an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI or a new ProSe identifier. The new ProSe identifier can be a newly generated temporary identifier which is globally unique and may further include a ProSe server identifier which identifies the ProSe server e.g. the ProSe identifier can be a cascade of the CUTI or a newly generated temporary identifier and the ProSe server identifier. The ProSe server identifier is pre configured in the MME or stored in the ProSe subscription information of the UE retrieved from the HSS during Attach or Tracking area update procedures.

In another embodiment when the temporary UE identifier associated with the ProSe identifier of the UE is changed the MME reallocates the ProSe identifier and updates the ProSe identifier to the UE and the ProSe server. For example the MME sends a first update message including the reallocated ProSe identifier to the UE and sends a second update message including the reallocated ProSe identifier to the ProSe server to update the ProSe identifier stored in the UE and in the ProSe server. Furthermore when the ProSe server receives the reallocated ProSe identifier from the MME the ProSe server replaces the old ProSe identifier e.g. ProSe ID X with a new ProSe identifier e.g. ProSe ID Y and informs the application servers which the old ProSe ID X have registered with the ProSe server to update the ProSe identifier by sending the new ProSe ID Y to replace the old ProSe ID X to the registered application servers based on stored information of the application identifier and or application server identifier which provides information of the application server address.

When an application running in the UE wants to use Proximity service to communicate with another UE the application layer of the UE transmits a ProSe indication message to the EPS layer of the UE as in step S to ask the EPS layer of the UE to perform a ProSe UE registration procedure. Next in step S the EPS layer of the UE transmits an attach request or a Tracking Area Update TAU request for requesting ProSe UE registration to the MME. In step S the MME retrieves and stores ProSe subscription information and ProSe preference settings related to the UE from the HSS. In step S the MME allocates a ProSe identifier of the UE and transmits a ProSe registration request including the ProSe identifier of the UE and the related ProSe preference settings to the ProSe server after checking the ProSe subscription and determining that the authorization of the UE for ProSe service.

After the ProSe server has successfully received the ProSe registration request in step S the ProSe server then stores the received the ProSe identifier and the related ProSe preference settings and determines if the ProSe UE registration is successful. When the ProSe server determines the ProSe UE registration is successful the ProSe server transmits a ProSe registration accept message indicating that the ProSe UE registration is successful to the MME as in step S otherwise when the ProSe server determines the ProSe UE registration is unsuccessful the ProSe server transmits a ProSe registration reject message indicating that the ProSe UE registration is rejected unsuccessful with an appropriate cause value to the MME as in step S.

In response to a received response which may be either the ProSe registration accept message or the ProSe registration reject message the MME transmits either an attach accept or TAU accept including the ProSe identifier of the UE as in step S or an attach accept not including the ProSe identifier as in step S to the EPS layer of the UE. After the EPS layer of the UE receives the attach TAU accept including the ProSe identifier of the UE the EPS layer of the UE then transmits the ProSe identifier to the application layer of the UE as in step S and stores the ProSe identifier in the memory of the UE as in step S. Then the ProSe UE registration is finished. Note that steps S to S can be referred to the above description of which has more detailed embodiments.

In steps S S S and S illustrated another embodiment related to the update of the ProSe identifier by the MME which happens when the temporary UE identifier associated with the ProSe identifier of the UE is changed. Related descriptions are given in the above and are omitted herein.

Please note that the above mentioned ProSe UE registration also called ProSe device registration is for the UE registers for ProSe service to the EPC and is a part of ProSe registration procedure. As to an application user who is a user account of the application requiring ProSe service registers to an application server is called ProSe application user registration also called ProSe application registration or ProSe user registration in short which is the second part of ProSe registration procedure. A UE may have multiple applications requiring ProSe service running on the application layer. There may have one or more application user identifiers set for an application. Each application user would like to use required ProSe service needs to perform application user registration with the Application service by its application user account. Therefore after finishing ProSe UE registration and obtaining ProSe ID for the UE there may perform one or multiple times of application user registration procedures e.g. there are different application user identifiers of an application or multiple applications requiring ProSe service.

Please also refer to to realize steps of the process . illustrates a diagram of a ProSe application user registration procedure in view of an Evolved Packet System according to an embodiment of the present invention. The Application server uses the ProSe user application registration procedure of towards a ProSe server in EPS as in where each entity can be referred to the EPS . The cooperating entities are UE with User A UE with User B eNB MME HSS ProSe server and application server. Steps S S in can be found in corresponding steps in . The process is used in a ProSe server such as the ProSe server in . To simplify the example in the following description User A in UE in is assumed to be the application user who requests to register to the application server.

In step S also S the ProSe server receives a ProSe service request from the application server which is sent from the application server in response to a user registration request for an application user of the application from a UE e.g. UE with User A . The user registration request referring to S is sent from the application layer of the UE to the application server and it includes a ProSe identifier which identifies the UE e.g. UE enabling ProSe service and an application user identifier e.g. User A of an application user who requests the application user registration. The ProSe identifier included in the user registration request is obtained by an application layer of the UE via an Application Programming Interface API from a lower layer of the UE. Thereby the ProSe service request that the ProSe server receives from the application server includes the ProSe identifier of the UE an application server identifier AppServer ID uniquely identifying an application and or the application user identifier of the application user. Note that the ProSe server who performs the process is addressed by the application server according to the information received from the user registration request which may be contained in an information element or obtained from the ProSe identifier.

In step S also S the ProSe server transmits an authorization request including the application server identifier to the home subscriber server HSS for requesting the authorization to the application server. In step S also S the ProSe server checks if the ProSe identifier of the UE is registered by the MME and thus determines that the authorization is successful or fails unsuccessful .

When the authorization is determined successful next in step S also S if indicating in the ProSe service request for quarrying location information or another request message for ProSe discovery from the application server the ProSe server further transmits a location update request to a network entity for acquiring location information of the UE e.g. UE which is identified by the UE identifier e.g. ProSe identifier or IMSI and in response in step S also S the ProSe server receives a location update response including the location information of the UE then in step S also S the ProSe server stores the received location information of the UE. It is noticeable that the location information may be represented by an ECGI E UTRAN Cell Identifier one or more cell identifiers TAI Tracking Area Identifier a service area or geometry coordinates based on network configuration and or user s subscription and configuration of the application.

After the ProSe server obtains the location information of the UE in step S also S the ProSe server transmits a ProSe service response message to the application server and the ProSe service response message includes an authorization result indicating that the authorization is successful the ProSe identifier of the UE or the acquired location information of the UE if requested. On the other side when the authorization is determined unsuccessful in step S also S the ProSe server transmits a ProSe service reject message indicating a failure cause to the application server without performing the location update request .

In one embodiment the ProSe further stores a mapping table including the ProSe identifier of the UE and associated application server identifiers so the mapping table indicates the relationships between the UE identified by the ProSe identifier and the registered applications wherein to simplified the example it is assumed that each one application server identifier is uniquely corresponding to one application. When considering the case that one application server may serve one or more application identified by different application identifiers the information of the application server identifier and the registered application identifier needs to be clearly specified in the request message. If the application identifier is represented by a URI with the application server identifier as domain name then application identifier is sufficient to identified the application and its associated application server.

Next in step S also S the ProSe server transmits a status update message to the application server. The status update message is for the UE e.g. UE and includes at least one of following information location information of the UE a user registration status which indicates the registration status of the application user e.g. User A in UE and device discovery preference settings.

Please refer to for the following procedure. After the application server has received the ProSe service response message as step S from the ProSe server in step S the application server stores information of the application user e.g. User A including a user registration status which indicates the registration status of the application user an associated peer list e.g. the peer list for the User A and the ProSe identifier of the UE e.g. UE . The peer list includes a plurality of peer application user identifiers each identifying a peer application user who also registers the same application. The application server manages the information of the application user according to following information 

Since each application user has its own device discovery preference settings device registration status and the location information of the UE the above three information are associated with the ProSe identifier of the UE.

Next in step S the application server performs proximity check according to proximity criteria settings of the application user and the UE after obtaining location information of the UE from the ProSe server. The proximity criteria settings indicate the required distance or a specific area between two peer UEs for peer application users.

In step S the application server transmits a user registration response to the application user i.e. transmits the user registration response to the UE e.g. UE where the application user e.g. User A is in using. The user registration response includes information of each peer application user indicated in the associated peer list and the information of each peer application user are related to the user preference setting the user registration status and the associated device registration status. For example if User B in UE is a peer application user of User A in UE the user registration response sent to User A may include information of User B since it is a peer of User A in the peer list including the user preference setting for User B the user registration status of User B and the associated device registration status of UE.

Further in step S the application server transmits a status update message to a registered peer application user e.g. User B in UE of a registered application user e.g. User A in UE when the application server receives the ProSe service response message as step S or receives the status update message as step S from the ProSe server for updating information related to the registered application User e.g. User A . The status update message sent to the peer application user e.g. User B may indicate at least one of the location information of the UE e.g. UE and updated user registration status of one or more ProSe peer application users in the peer list of the registered peer application user e.g. User B if available.

From the above steps S to S can be regarded as the ProSe application user registration procedure including optional location information retrieval. In combination with the ProSe UE registration procedure as previously described in the ProSe registration procedure including ProSe UE registration procedure and one or more ProSe application users registration procedures is completed.

Note that the ProSe server and the application server have stored and maintained respective mapping tables. The Prose server stores UE related device related information and the application server stores both UE related information and application user related information which can be referred to the following Table 1 

From the Table 1 the application server can determine which application users to update the information of an application user which has notified the latest location information or change of the location information or registration status by the ProSe server. For example the location information of the User A is updated the application server performs the following steps 1. finds the peer list of the User A to obtain all the application user IDs on the peer list. 2. According to the application user ID stored in table 1 e.g. User B the application server further checks if user registration status is active and obtains its corresponding ProSe ID e.g. ProSe ID B . 3. According to the ProSe ID B the application server further checks if the ProSe ID B is ProSe registered according to the table 2. When abovementioned checks are passed the application server can then determine to send status update message for updating information of the User A towards the User B.

In the case of the detach procedure initiated by the UE the UE may transmit a detach request to the MME. In the case of the detach procedure initiated by the other network entity the MME may receive a detach request from the other network entity.

Next in step the ProSe server transmits a second message including the ProSe identifier identifying the deregistered UE to all application servers which the UE has registered with for notifying that the UE is de registered from the ProSe server. The ProSe server obtains the information of all the application servers which the UE has registered with such as all the application server identifiers from a mapping table stored in the ProSe server. The mapping table is referred to the above Table 1 which indicates the relationship between the UE identified by the ProSe identifier and the registered applications and or the corresponding application servers.

To simplified it is assumed that each Application server identified by an APPServer ID is associated with one Application identified by an Application ID. For example in Case of the APPServer and APPServer respectively have the User A and the User A registered with the same ProSe enabled UE identified by ProSe ID. When the UE is detached for the ProSe service from the network the ProSe server notifies the APPServer and APPServer respectively according to the ProSe ID in the stored mapping table of the ProSe server. In Case of the APPServer has the User A and the User B registered with the same UE identified by the ProSe ID. When the UE is detached for the ProSe service from the network the ProSe server notifies the APPServer according to the ProSe ID. Then the APPServer updates the registration status of the User A and User B to an inactive status and updates the status to all registered users on the ProSe peers lists of the User A and User B. In Case of the APPServer has the User A registered with different UEs UE and UE identified by the ProSe ID and the ProSe ID. When the UE is detached for the ProSe service from the network the ProSe server notifies the APPServer according to the ProSe ID. The APPServer removes the association between the User A and the ProSe ID and does not need to change the registration status of the User A because the User A still remains active on the UE identified by the ProSe ID.

In addition the processing unit in could execute the program code to perform any one of the above described processes and or others described herein.

Various aspects of the invention have been described above. It should be apparent that the teachings herein may be embodied in a wide variety of forms and that any specific structure function or both being disclosed herein is merely representative. Based on the teachings herein one skilled in the art should appreciate that an aspect disclosed herein may be implemented independently of any other aspects and that two or more of these aspects may be combined in various ways. For example an apparatus may be implemented or a method may be practiced using any number of the aspects set forth herein. In addition such an apparatus may be implemented or such a method may be practiced using another structure functionality or structure and functionality in addition to or other than one or more of the aspects set forth herein.

Those with skill in the art will understand that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Those with skill in the art will further appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules processors means circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware e.g. a digital implementation an analog implementation or a combination of the two which may be designed using source coding or some other technique various forms of program or design code incorporating instructions which may be referred to herein for convenience as software or a software module or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

In addition the various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented within or performed by an integrated circuit IC an access terminal or an access point. The IC may comprise a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components electrical components optical components mechanical components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein and may execute code or instructions that reside within the IC outside of the IC or both. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

It is understood that any specific order or hierarchy of steps in any disclosed process is an example of a sample approach. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes may be rearranged while remaining within the scope of the present invention. The accompanying method claims present elements of the various steps in a sample order and are not meant to be limited to the specific order or hierarchy presented.

Use of ordinal terms such as first second third etc. in the claims to modify a claim element does not by itself connote any priority precedence or order of one claim element over another or the temporal order in which acts of a method are performed but are used merely as labels to distinguish one claim element having a certain name from another element having the same name but for use of the ordinal term to distinguish the claim elements.

While the invention has been described by way of example and in terms of preferred embodiment it is to be understood that the invention is not limited thereto. Those who are skilled in this technology can still make various alterations and modifications without departing from the scope and spirit of this invention. Therefore the scope of the present invention shall be defined and protected by the following claims and their equivalents.

