---

title: System and method to capture and process body measurements
abstract: The present invention is directed to system and method capture and process body measurement data including one or more body scanners, each body scanner configured to capture a plurality depth images of a user. A backend system, coupled to each body scanner, is configured to receive the plurality of depth images, generate a three dimensional avatar of the user based on the plurality of depth images, and generate a set of body measurements of the user based on the avatar. A repository is in communication with the backend system and configured to associate the body scanner data with the user and store the body scanner data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09526442&OS=09526442&RS=09526442
owner: Fit3D, Inc.
number: 09526442
owner_city: Redwood City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140503
---
The disclosure relates generally to a health system and in particular to a system and method for capturing and processing body measurements.

Current systems lack the ability to capture to scale human body avatars extract precise body measurements and securely store and aggregate and process that data for the purpose of data dissemination over on the Internet. In the past if a person wanted to capture body measurements he or she would have to either wrap a tape measure around his or her body parts write down those measurements and then find a way to store and track those measurements. A person would do this to get fitted for clothing assess his or her health based on their body measurements track his or her body measurement changes over time or some other application that used his or her measurements. This process is very error prone is not precisely repeatable and these measurements are not stored on connected servers where the information is accessible and the user cannot track his or her changes. In addition there is no system that can capture these body measurements and then generate a to scale human body avatar.

There are a number of existing body scanning systems. For example TC 2 NX 16 and KX 16 Vitus Smart XXL Styku MeasureMe BodyMetrics and Me Ality are examples of these existing body scanning systems. Each of these systems is a body scanner where the user stands still in a spread pose and the system then create body contour maps based on depth sensors white light projectors and cameras or lasers. These systems then use those body contour maps avatars to extract measurements about the user. In each case the body scanners is used to extract measurements for the purposes of clothing fitting or to create an avatar that the user can play with. Each of these known systems is extremely complicated expensive and therefore cannot be distributed widely to the mainstream markets. Furthermore none of the aforementioned systems offer an online storage facility for the data captured and users can simply use the measurements at the store that houses the scanner. Another missing component in these systems is data aggregation from each of these scanning systems.

There are also a number of existing companies that allow users to enter body measurement data online. These companies include healthehuman weightbydate trackmybody Visual Fitness Planner Fitbit and Withings and all of these companies allow users to manually enter their body measurements using their online platforms. These companies are mainly focused on the following girth measurements because they are easily accessible neck shoulders chest waist hips left and right biceps elbows forearms wrists thighs knees calves and ankles. These systems allow the user to track these measurements over time. These companies do not solve the problem because user measurements are extremely subjective therefore accuracy cannot be determined user measurements are not repeatable and therefore cannot be used to form trends. Furthermore users that have hundreds of additional measurements cannot be manually captured and therefore are not included in the aforementioned company s trend analysis. Also average users that have extremely short attention spans generally do not want to capture measurement with a tape measure and then input those measurements into an application. This process is time consuming and error prone. Therefore time is a large problem for the current sets of solutions.

The present invention is directed to system and method capture and process body measurement data including one or more body scanners each body scanner configured to capture a plurality depth images of a user. A backend system coupled to each body scanner is configured to receive the plurality of depth images generate a three dimensional avatar of the user based on the plurality of depth images and generate a set of body measurements of the user based on the avatar. A repository is in communication with the backend system and configured to associate the body scanner data with the user and store the body scanner data.

These and other features aspects and advantages of the invention will become better understood with reference to the following description appended claims and accompanying drawings.

The disclosure is particularly applicable to systems that capture body scans create avatars from the body scan extract body measurements and securely aggregate and display motivating visualizations and data. It is in this context that the disclosure will be described. It will be appreciated however that the system and method has greater utility since it can also be implemented as a standalone system and with other computer system architectures that are within the scope of the disclosure.

Each scanner may be implemented using a combination of hardware and software and will be described in more detail below with reference to . In the embodiment shown in a user is rotated using a turntable past one or more stationary cameras to capture the body mesh of the user. In an alternate embodiment the user may be stationary and one or more cameras may rotate about the user to capture the body mesh of the user. Each scanner may generate a body mesh of a user from which an avatar may be created and then the backend system may assign an identifier to each body mesh package of each user.

An exemplary user computing device may be a computing system that has at least one processor memory a display and circuitry operable to communicate with the backend system . For example each user computing device may be a personal computer a smartphone device a tablet computer a terminal and any other device that can couple to the backend system and interact with the backend system . In one embodiment each user computing device may store a local or browser application that is executed by the processor of the user computing device and then enable display of the web platform or application data for the particular user generated by the backend system . Each user computing device and the backend system may interact with each user computing device sending requests to the backend system and the backend system sending responses back to the user computing device. For example the backend system may generate and send an avatar of the user and body measurements of the user to the user computing device that may be displayed in the user s web platform. The web platform of the user may also display other data to the user and allow the user to request various types of information and data from the backend system .

The backend system may comprise an ID generator that generates the identifier for the body mesh package of each user which aids in anonymous and secure information transfer between the backend system and the computing devices. The backend system also may comprise a repository for processed data including a body mesh for each user and body measurements of each user that may be indexed by the identifier of the body mesh generated above and one or more web servers with one or more web instances that may be used to interact with the web platform of the users. The backend system may also have a load balancer that balances the requests from the user web platforms in a well known manner. The backend system may also have a backup repository including a body mesh for each user and body measurements of each user that may be indexed by the identifier of the body mesh generated above and one or more applications that may be used to extract body measurements from the body mesh and process the body meshes. In one implementation the backend system may be built using a combination of hardware and software and the software may use Java and MySQL PostgreSQL SQLite Microsoft SQL Server Oracle dBASE flat text or other known formats for the repositories . In one implementation the hardware of the backend system may be the Amazon Cloud Computing stack that allows for ease of scale of the system as the system has more scanners and additional users.

The rotation device may further include a platform in which a user may stand while the body scan is being performed and a drive gear that causes the platform to rotate under control of other circuits and devices of the rotation device. The rotation device may have a microswitch a drive motor and a microprocessor that are coupled together and the microprocessor controls the drive motor to control the rotation of the drive gear and thus the rotation of the platform . The microswitch is a sensor that detects the rotation of the platform which may be fed back to the microprocessor and may also be used to trigger the one or more cameras. The rotation device may also have a power supply that supplies power to each of the components of the rotation device.

The microprocessor of the rotation device may be coupled to the computing device that may be a desktop computer personal computer a server computer mobile tablet computer or mobile smart phone with sufficient processing power and the like that has the ability to control the rotation device through the microprocessor and capture the frames images or video from the one or more cameras . The computing device may also have software and controls the other elements of the system. For example is an example of pseudocode operating on the scanning device. The software may be built using C REST Web Communication Protocol Java or other platforms languages or protocols known in the art. The one or more cameras such as cameras and in the example in may each be a depth sensing and read green blue RGB camera. For example each camera may be a Microsoft Kinect Asus Xtion Pro or Asus Xtion Pro Live Primesense Carmine or any other depth sensing camera which includes any of the following technologies IR emitter and IR receiver color receiver. As shown in the one or more handles may be coupled to and controlled by the microprocessor . Each handle may have adjustable height and further have an upper portion on which a user may grasp during the body scan and a base portion into which the upper portion may slide to adjust the position of the handle to accommodate different users.

Once the user accepts the liability waiver the computing device may display an image capture screen and the one or more cameras are configured . The user may then step onto the platform and the user may grab onto the handles. The platform begins to rotate and the one or more cameras begin to capture body scan data . The software in the computing device and the microprocessor tracks the rotation of the platform and detects if the platform has rotated 360 degrees or more . If at least 360 degree rotation has been completed then the microswitch or additional internal software triggering as a result of a timer based from the microswitch may trigger the cameras to stop capturing data . The user may then step off the platform . Software in the computing device of the scanner may then generate a body mesh from the data from the one or more cameras or the software may generate a body mesh as the cameras are actively capturing body scan data . Software in the computing device of the scanner may then package the body mesh data of the user into a package that may be identified by the identifier and the package may be sent to the backend system . 

Referring to in the backend system the computing resources may execute a plurality of lines of computer code that generate body measurements based on the body scan based on landmarks on the body. The system locates desired landmarks on the body via such methods as silhouette analysis which projects three dimensional body scanned data onto a two dimensional surface and observes the variations in curvature and depth minimum circumference which uses the variations of the circumference of body parts to define the locations of the landmarks and feature lines gray scale detection which converts the color information of human body from RGB values into gray scale values to locate the landmarks with greater variations in brightness or human body contour plot which simulates the sense of touch to locate landmarks by finding the prominent and concave parts on the human body. Additional non limiting disclosure of landmark location processing is in U.S. Pat. App. No. 20060171590 to Lu et al which is hereby incorporated by reference. The system locates selected landmarks and measures a distance between them and correlates the distance to a body measurement . Representative landmarks include the feet bottom arch the calf front rear sides thigh front rear sides torso waist chest neck front rear sides head crown sides . In exemplary configuration the images mesh landmarks and the body measurements are stored in the repository . It should be noted that for visual clarity body measurement reference numbers are not included. In further exemplary configuration the data is associated with the user identifier and time date information.

In one implementation the system may use a measurement extraction algorithm and application from a company called TC 2. The backend system using the TC 2 application or another method may extract multiple girth and length measurements as well as body and segment volumes and body and segment surface areas. For example 150 body measurements or more may be extracted as shown in the representative measures of .

The system may then be used for men and women that want to gain or lose girth and weight. For example a very skinny man comes into a training facility and mentions to the training staff that he wants to put on 20 pounds of muscle in 1 year. The staff knowing that this is highly improbable if not impossible may try to quell this man s expectations sell their services by lying or pass on the opportunity to train this person because their goals cannot be achieved. However using the system the staff can take a scan of the man using the body scanner and enter additional data into the system. The operators of the body scanner may then use the system s projection tools and with the addition of generic nutrition information like average protein and carbohydrate caloric intake and generic exercise activity types and levels can project what this man s avatar and measurements may be in a month quarter year or several years based on the amassed data and resultant analytics generated by the backend system . Thus the training facility has the tools to set a user s expectations based on objective and quantitative data has the ability to design a plan to get that user on his path to success and has the ability to capture additional scans along the way so that the trainer and user can track the user s progress and make adjustments to the program based on actual data if necessary.

While the foregoing has been with reference to a particular embodiment of the invention it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes in this embodiment may be made without departing from the principles and spirit of the disclosure the scope of which is defined by the appended claims.

