---

title: QSL card confirmation system and method of using the same
abstract: The invention automatically generates a QSL card, a template previously loaded, when an electronic confirmation of the contact between two stations matches each other logbooks. The card can only be obtain in a print fashion via online printers previously registered, and the card can not be saved in any place outside the server before the confirmation between both stations. The QSL cards are coded with ID serial numbers and traceable through commercial printers and personal printers services to prevent any fraud. The invention provides a more robust QSO Confirmation System, taken advantages of the best technologies available today while maintaining a very important radio amateur tradition.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09152900&OS=09152900&RS=09152900
owner: 
number: 09152900
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140528
---
There are two existing methods for a radio contact confirmation between two amateur radio stations the term use is QSL Can you acknowledge receipt the QSL card exchange traditionally by mail or QSL bureau a group voluntary Amateur Radio Operators around the world QSL Managers and the electronic logbook match up in a database system. For example Logbook of The World LoTW the American Radio Relay League ARRL online system make this electronic matching and confirm the contact. However a QSL post card is not sent. Traditionally the QSL post card by mail service or QSL Bureau was the method of confirmation of a radio contact QSO between amateur stations. Sometimes it takes years to receive a QSL card by mail or Bureau and in many occasions the stations have to send money to the other station to pay for the mailing process.

The QSL card is a very desirable item by most of the amateur radio operators around the world because it is a solid evidence of their achievements and thus it has become an integral part of the hobby tradition. The QSL card is a piece of evidence that lasts for a lifetime a piece of other country other culture and a collectible item.

Alternatively with the use of the electronic log match came the digital QSL postcard exchange like eQSL.cc does online wherein the users have the ability to send and receive a digital QSL card when a log match takes place. This digital QSL card can be downloaded and managed in a local computer of the users. However this generates a problem of fraud and fake confirmations due to the advancement in digital manipulation now a day. For that reason the ARRL and many other Radio Organizations does not recognize the eQSL system cards to be a valid confirmation method to obtain any award granted by these organizations. If the user wants to submit this cards for award purposes the granting organizations have to print the cards and send it back to the sending station for signing and then submit it for awards.

Also is a very common for simulating a QSO confirmation practice to obtain the accounts security username passwords and certificates software. Thus many stations around the world are hesitant to use any of these two systems because of the security issues the lack of quality complexity and poor offering in terms of choices.

Thus what is needed is a simple yet secure QSL confirmation system that allows the exchange of confirmed and valid QSL cards between two users that allows printing and exchanging QSL cards while at the same time providing a fraud free submission and certification system.

Throughout the figures the same reference numbers and characters unless otherwise stated are used to denote like elements components portions or features of the illustrated embodiments. The subject invention will be described in detail in conjunction with the accompanying figures in view of the illustrative embodiments.

The general operation of the invention will be explained with reference to . Both Station and Station have been previously registered with the eBabel system and have valid accounts. Therefore their respective electronic logbooks detailing all their contacts and communications were uploaded to the System in ADIF Amateur Data Interchange Format format. The system performs a matching operation via a Matching Mechanism Module where Log records in the database are automatically compared looking for matching entries between two stations. The matching criteria by both participating stations to be searched and compared by the system are 1 Stations call signs 2 band radio frequency 3 operating mode and 4 Date and Time UTC of the contact with a maximum of 30 minutes of difference between records. The matching process is transparent to both of the two stations concerning a QSO so that no log entry or confirmation status can be seen before the match takes place. Once the match is positive the QSL cards are generated automatically by the system and transferred and migrated to the Manager section of each user within the system. One important feature of the invention is that the user can extract the QSL card via the Internet directly to a network connected printer. Additionally the QSL card could be directed to a personal or commercial printer.

The QSL information provided by the system could be obtained in different formats such as but not limited to 4 6 photo format Avery Standard Label 8252 8162 5162 and a 8.5 11 Text Report Format sheet. In accordance with a novel feature of the invention a confirmation code is provided in each QSL printed document the same for both documents . Once the Confirmation code is provided to the user in the printed card the Confirmation code must be submitted back to the system in order to authenticate the QSL exchange process. To avoid any fraudulent or illegitimate action the confirmation number is complemented with a four digits encrypted personal pin number previously set by the user. Thus a user submits to the system the confirmation number along with the four digits encrypted personal pin number. After the system receives the information sent by the user the QSL confirmation is granted by the system and the QSL process ends by the confirmation of both stations. Now a digital QSL card could be downloaded to a computer and printed if desired.

In operation each station uploads its respective eLog to the eBabel System and begins the QSL confirmation process using a User Interface that follows the directions described in . Once the System matches the eLog of both stations a confirmation code is generated and independently sent to print within a QSL card to a network connected printer . Both users then enter the confirmation code into the system along with a Pin number . Finally the System matches both confirmation codes in a step defined by the reference number and proceeds to confirm the QSL communication . As previously mentioned describes a preferred implementation of the User Interface for the method and system of the present invention.

The QSL authentication process of the invention will be explained in more detail with reference of . As previously explained both stations have validated accounts and the electronic logbooks were uploaded to the System in ADIF format. Log records in the database are automatically compared looking for matching entries and when a match is found a first validation is determined. Afterwards the QSL cards are generated automatically by the system and migrated to the Manager section of each user within the system. A card preview thumbnail is displayed in a Micro Manager Unit of the system where the QSL card will be managed until final confirmation. If a Confirmation Code is not available the Micro Manager Unit will show the actual status of the different steps of the transaction until a Confirmation code is available and final confirmation is determined. The user extracts the card though the Internet directly to a network connected printer where a second validation occurs. At this point the QSL label will show a PENDING status. As previously explained the same confirmation code will be available in Both QSL printed document sent to Station and Station . The Confirmation Code is then submitted to the system in order to authenticate the QSL exchange process. A third validation occurs when a user submits the Confirmation Code along with a complimentary four digits encrypted personal pin number previously set by the user. The QSL confirmation is granted by the system and the QSL process ends by the confirmation of both stations. However if one of the stations does not submit the Confirmation Code the Micro Manager Unit will show a Waiting Confirmation status until the other station finish the process. Once the QSL is finally confirmed by the system the Micro Manager Unit shows a CONFIRMED status . The digital QSL card could be downloaded to a computer or re printed showing this time the CONFIRMED status in the QSO label.

The Micro Manager feature of the invention will be explained in conjunction with . The Micro Manager GUI shows an Activate Select button along with a visual identification of the sender s Call Sign Country and QSO detail information such as QSO date Mode and Band. A Card thumbnail is available and visible to the user via a Preview window. The GUI also provides visual indication of the step or status of the Confirmation process such as a progress bar. A MENU is provided to the user for performing several related actions such as Print Add to Favorites Save and Delete. Once a user access the Micro Manager area the first step is to select activate the Micro Manager. Once selected the MENU is available. In order to obtain the QSL card and start the Confirmation process the user must print the card. If the user is not interested in the card the user could simply delete it via the appropriate option in the MENU. If desired the card is set and ready to print. The execute send button is active as indicated by a bright green color. The Micro Manager will show the Printing status while the printing process is complete. Once the Card is printed and the Printed status is visible the Confirmation Code must be submitted in order to confirm the QSL process. Once the code is enter the execute send button turns active and the Confirming status is visible while the system accepts the code. If the other station does not submit the code the Micro Manager will show the Waiting Confirmation status until the other station submits the code along with its pin number. When both stations submit the Confirmation Code the Confirmed status is granted and the Save and Add to Favorites options on the MENU are available.

1 Account Settings section for Amateur Radio Operator info license upload and Password and Personal Pin number setting 

2 Printer Setting section for printers configuration and validation. As part of setting up the account a commercial printer must be set. This commercial web account will be administrated by the eBabel System specifying the person that will receive the document it is possible that multiple station receive QSLs in the same place under the same account . The system will send a confirmation via those printers creating a route. The user receives the document with the confirmation code. Then by entering this code to the system in a specific period of time validates the route. That means that the delivery is physically traceable. Once the station validated a commercial printer it could set up a personal printer e.g. the HP ePrint service using a combination of the validated route and the ePrint service and 3 Membership section for choosing and paying for a membership plan.

A Call sign input and search command is provided. The system will take the station information from the QRZ.com database. If some information is missing or the station doesn t have any info at QRZ.com it could also be manually entered. Text field is provided to set a desire user name and a text field is provided to set the desire password that will have some specifications. An Upload License button is provided to upload the Amateur Radio License to the eBabel server. The system will look in the PDF file that the information entered before matches the License info. Radio buttons are provided to select a user icon to be display at the menus. It will also be the link to the user s wall. A PIN number area is provided to set the Pin number. The user must create a four 4 digits encrypted pin number in order to authenticate their entries to the system just like an electronic signature. A Save button is provided to save the settings in the system. Printer selection buttons are provided to select the printer position. The user could set two commercial printers and also two personal printers. Text field is provided to enter the zip code of the commercial printer wanted. A dropdown menu is provided to select a printing service company available in the area as well as a dropdown menu to select the specific location of a store. In case there is no commercial printing service available in the provided list the user could ask the system administrator to create an account in the desire location using form and submitting the petition to the system administrator via button . A Reset button is provided to reset erase the entire printer setup. Once the user setups the printer the system will ask to print a confirmation as shown in .

Personal printer selection buttons are provided to select the personal printer position. A dropdown menu is provided to choose the brand of the printer and another dropdown menu is provided to choose the model of the printer. A text field is provided to enter the email address of the printer. The major printers manufacturers offers the connection of their printers to the company network in order to bring the printer owner the capacity to print a documents remotely using the internet. The user has to setup an account with the manufacturer service in order to have this benefit. The user must set an email address in the mail company server. For example in the HP ePrint system the printer is connected to the HP server and any file sent to the email address set by the user will be printed automatically with the owner permission . The archive when comes from third parties emails won t be save in the HP server. Once the user setups the printer the system will ask to print a confirmation as shown in .

Radio buttons are provided to choose a membership plan. In a preferred embodiment 3 plans are available 

The status of the membership will be visible at the main menu. In the unlimited uploads plan the information will be display as follow Days remaining e.g. 250 . In the pay per post plan QSOs remaining QSOs credits paid e.g. 825 1200 and in the free plan QSOs remaining QSOs free e.g. 80 200 . Section shows the accepted payment methods and a Submit button is provided to submit the information.

Finally text field is provided to enter the confirmation code wherein areas show the process to submit the code and finish the printer validation.

This invention discloses a novel approach of the Multi factor authentication systems domain applied to QSL Card authentication. The invention specifically uses a unique variation of the Two Step Authentication method using network connected printers. The factor used in this method is the Something only the user has in this case a registered local based network connected Printer. The System s Authentication Engine uses MD5 message digest algorithms to produce a unique id per validation per user. The generated confirmation number will be only available through the network printing interface. Once printed the User can interface the System in order to confirm the printed number closing the Authentication process. The System implements a lightweight Messaging system in order to facilitate the messaging and events scheduling resulting from the stations users interaction helping to achieve an easier and effective communication support. The invention implements the Network Printer Two Step Authentication method using the general high level architecture illustrated on .

QSO Logs Input Module Engine is responsible for fetching and persisting user s QSO records in ADIF format for the purpose of perform a blind match QSL records for further confirmation and validation. Once the QSL records are matched and being persisted the user can initiate the Authentication and Confirmation process. Records will be uploaded using HTTP POST over HTPPS 128 encryption for security. This engine will be using Non SQL database technology to support the persistence a high volume of QSO records. It will also use SQL technology to ensure high speed and indexed SQL records for faster matching process. The QSL Manager System will be implemented via Web Mobile Interface Network Printer Interfaces and the QSL Authentication Engine as shown in the Figures. The network printing Interface supports various network printing interface protocols such as but not limited to HP ePrint STMP and Walgreens QuickPrints API JSON over REST. It also implements secure Web Services interfaces using HTPPS 128 bit encryption for security. The messenger Engine implements the entire communication and scheduling task either for users and other sub system within the architecture as depicted in the Figures. This engine uses a set of REST over HTTPS 128 bit encryption for flexibility and security. It will also implement Message broker for asynchronous communication. It implements Non SQL persistence for scalable and fast write mechanism. illustrates the Messenger and Calendar Engine sequence diagram.

This sub system parses a file uploaded via HTTPS POST using the ADIF syntax. The sub system is implemented as shown in where the flow of uploading and persisting QSO records within the sub system is illustrated.

This sub system handles the blind matching process scheduler for QSO records utilizing the QSO records Call Sign Band Mode and Date and Time UTC having a hr time frame window for the matching. Once a QSO recorded has been matched it will create a QSL record on status received it will use alerts both users of the matching process respectively. illustrates the sequence diagram in detail.

This sub system implements the logic regarding the QSL Authentication. The Web View initiates a session the system validates user credentials and clearance the access within the module. The QSL Controller Web module then queries the date for all QSL associated to the authenticated user.

Performing actions in order to evoke status changes more specific in this case initiate two use cases as shown in 

This sub system will implement the logic regarding the Network Printing Interface which will support various connectors. At this point it supports STMP ePrint style as well as JSON REST Walgreens API. Once the QSL has been confirmed it can be printed through the print action within the QSL Web Manager View. The QSL Print Web View will handle the format and provider to select giving the flexibility to the user to select from Full Front Back Label or Text Report card choices as well as supported quality printing options such printer quality or commercial product groups. The Authenticated user selects the format provider with options and quantity all parameters will be encapsulated within the format user and provider objects. The Controller will then generates the labels fetch for images to uses from the QSL image configuration module. Render the images to print accordingly. Create a new image object with the design to print. Then evoke eBabel Print API with the Provider and image url. With the API which is acting as a provider normalizer will load the correspondent interface for the giving provider. In the case of ePrint will encode a SMTP message and will send to the mail to the Printing service. In the case of Walgreen s will then authenticate the API upload the image url and set the proper product and quantity to print. Asynchronously it will update the view to reflect the printing provider status when available. This process is illustrated in .

Although the present invention has been described herein with reference to the foregoing exemplary embodiment this embodiment does not serve to limit the scope of the present invention. Accordingly those skilled in the art to which the present invention pertains will appreciate that various modifications are possible without departing from the technical spirit of the present invention.

