---

title: Pharmaceutical compounds and use of same in cancer and tauopathies
abstract: Disclosed are compounds of formula (1)-(V): where the substituents are as provided herein. Further disclosed are methods of inhibiting tau aggregation, treating or ameliorating a tauopathy or cancer by administration of such a compound. Tau is a microtubule-binding protein that accumulates in a number of neurodegenerative disorders, including frontotemporal dementia and Alzheimer's disease (AD). The presence of abnormal tau correlates with neuron loss and memory deficits in patients with AD and other neurodegenerative disorders that involve tau accumulation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09642843&OS=09642843&RS=09642843
owner: THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
number: 09642843
owner_city: Ann Arbor
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140227
---
The benefit of U.S. provisional application No. 61 769 942 filed Feb. 27 2013 is claimed the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant Number NS059690 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Tau is a microtubule binding protein that accumulates in a number of neurodegenerative disorders including frontotemporal dementia and Alzheimer s disease AD . The presence of abnormal tau correlates with neuron loss and memory deficits in patients with AD and other neurodegenerative disorders that involve tau accumulation. Therefore selectively reducing tau levels or tau aggregation is an effective therapeutic strategy.

Efforts towards that goal have largely focused on either inhibitors of tau aggregation see Taniguchi et al. 280 7614 2005 and Wischik et al. 93 11213 1996 inhibitors of tau phosphorylation Mazanetz and Fischer 6 464 2007 or compounds that stimulate tau degradation Koren et al. 13 619 2009 Jinwal et al. 29 12079 2009 and Oddo et al. 28 12163 2008 . Each of these strategies is potentially promising and well supported by genetic evidence but many of the compounds identified to date have relatively modest activity. For example methylene blue MB which both inhibits tau aggregation and stimulates tau degradation through heat shock protein 70 Hsp70 has an ECvalue of approximately 10 M. Other promising compounds such as the Hsp90 inhibitors 17 AAG and EC1012 reduce tau levels but they also produce a robust stress response which is expected to diminish their long term efficacy.

Neurodegenerative disorders are also associated with expansion of polyCAG tracts Kaytor et al. 274 37507 1999 . Huntington s disease and several other neurodegenerative disorders are characterized by expansion of a polyglutamine sequence LaSpada et al. 352 77 1991 Koide et al. 6 9 1994 . The expanded polyCAG tracts encode abnormally long polyglutamine sequences within specific proteins promoting their nuclear and or cytoplasmic aggregation. The protein aggregation is believed to contribute to cellular toxicity including cell death or apoptosis Trottier et al. 378 403 1995 Davies et al. 90 537 1997 and DiFiglia et al. 277 1990 1997 .

MKT 077 is a delocalized lipophilic cationic rhodacyanine that selectively binds Hsp70 in cells based on biochemical and genetic studies. Recent NMR studies have shown that MKT 077 binds to an allosteric pocket in the nucleotide binding domain NBD of Hsc70 an abundant cytoplasmic member of the Hsp70 family. This binding site is highly conserved and MKT 077 is active against other family members such as mitochondrial and prokaryotic Hsp70s. Prior efforts have shown that MKT 077 and its analogs bind Hsp70 family members and have anti cancer activity in multiple cancer lines including melanoma cells and carcinomas of the colon breast and pancreas. Based on these observations MKT 077 advanced to a Phase I clinical study as an anti cancer agent. However progress was halted due to nephrotoxicity in a subset of patients. Renal damage was likely exacerbated by the dramatic accumulation of MKT 077 in the kidney as shown by whole animal imaging and pharmacodynamic studies. Moreover these same studies confirmed that MKT 077 does not cross the BBB blunting any potential use in treating or studying neurodegenerative diseases. Together these problems have limited use of MKT 077 especially in CNS disorders.

Thus new compounds that have anti cancer properties or can regulate tau and or polyglutamine are of interest.

Provided herein are compounds and compositions and their use in anticancer and tauopathy applications. More specifically provided herein are compounds having a formulae of I V 

Further provided are methods of using one of the compounds as disclosed herein by contacting it with a cell and in some embodiments administering it to a subject e.g. a mammal such as human . The cell can be a cancerous cell. The compound can be contacted or administered in an amount effective to inhibit or decrease heat shock protein 70 HSP70 activity. The cancer can be a melanoma hepatoma glioma neurobalstoma sarcoma carcinoma of the lung carcinoma of the colon carcinoma of the breast carcinoma of the bladder carcinoma of the ovary carcinoma of the testes carcinoma of the prostate carcinoma of the cervix carcinoma of the pancreas carcinoma of the stomach or carcinoma of the small intestine. In some cases the cancer is breast cancer or myeloma. The methods disclosed herein can further comprise contacting or administering a second therapeutic. The second therapeutic can be a chemotherapeutic an immunotherapeutic agent an a HSP90 inhibitor or a proteasome inhibitor. In some cases the second therapeutic is a proteasome inhibitor or a HSP90 inhibitor. The second therapeutic and compound as disclosed herein can be administered simultaneously. In some cases they are co formulated. The second therapeutic and compound as disclosed herein can be administered sequentially. In some cases the second therapeutic is administered before the compound while in other cases the second therapeutic is administered after the compound. In various cases the second therapeutic is carfilzomib 17 DMAG NVP AUY922 or bortezomib.

Further provided herein are methods of treating a subject suffering from cancer comprising administering to the subject a compound as disclosed herein in an amount effective to treat the cancer. The cancer can be a melanoma hepatoma glioma neurobalstoma sarcoma carcinoma of the lung carcinoma of the colon carcinoma of the breast carcinoma of the bladder carcinoma of the ovary carcinoma of the testes carcinoma of the prostate carcinoma of the cervix carcinoma of the pancreas carcinoma of the stomach carcinoma of the small intestine leukemia lymphoma myeloma or a liquid tumor. In various cases the cancer is breast cancer or myeloma.

Also provided herein are methods of inhibiting tau protein aggregate formation in a cell by contacting the cell with a compound as disclosed herein in an amount effective to inhibit the tau protein aggregate formation. In some cases the method comprises inhibiting polyQ aggregate formation by contacting a cell with a compound as disclosed herein in an amount effective to inhibit the polyQ aggregate formation. In various embodiments the contacting comprises administering the compound to a subject in need thereof. The subject can be a mammal e.g. a human. The subject can suffer from a tauopathy. The tauopathy can be from Alzheimer s disease Pick s disease Progressive Supranuclear Palsy PSP fronto temporal dementia FTD parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 FTDP 17 disinhibition dementia parkinsonism amyotrophy complex DDPAC pallido ponto nigral degeneration PPND Guam ALS syndrome pallido nigro luysian degeneration PNLD Huntington s disease Kennedy disease dentatorubropallidoluysian atrophy Spinocerebellar ataxia Machado Joseph disease cortico basal degeneration CBD amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS or a traumatic brain injury. In some embodiments the method further comprises administering an anti tau therapeutic agent. The anti tau therapeutic agent can be of amyloid antibodies cysteine protease inhibitors PEP inhibitors LiCl acetylcholinesterase AChE inhibitors PIMT enhancers inhibitors of beta secretases inhibitors of gamma secretases inhibitors of aminopeptidases preferably inhibitors of dipeptidyl peptidases most preferably DP IV inhibitors inhibitors of neutral endopeptidase inhibitors of phosphodiesterase 4 PDE 4 TNF inhibitors muscarinic M1 receptor antagonists NMDA receptor antagonists sigma 1 receptor inhibitors histamine H3 antagonists immunomodulatory agents immunosuppressive agents MCP 1 antagonists or an agent selected from the group consisting of antegren natalizumab Neurelan fampridine SR campath alemtuzumab IR 208 NBI 5788 MSP 771 tiplimotide paclitaxel Anergix.MS AG 284 SH636 Differin CD 271 adapalene BAY 361677 interleukin 4 matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors e.g. BB 76163 interferon tau trophoblastin methylene blue an HSP90 inhibitor celasterol SAIK MS or a combination thereof.

The foregoing summary is not intended to define every aspect of the invention and additional aspects are described in other sections such as the Detailed Description. The entire document is intended to be related as a unified disclosure and it should be understood that all combinations of features described herein are contemplated even if the combination of features are not found together in the same sentence or paragraph or section of this document.

In addition to the foregoing the invention includes as an additional aspect all embodiments of the invention narrower in scope in any way than the variations specifically mentioned above. With respect to aspects of the invention described or claimed with a or an it should be understood that these terms mean one or more unless context unambiguously requires a more restricted meaning. With respect to elements described as one or more within a set it should be understood that all combinations within the set are contemplated. If aspects of the invention are described as comprising a feature embodiments also are contemplated consisting of or consisting essentially of the feature.

Aspects of the invention described as methods of treatment should also be understood to include first or subsequent medical use aspects of the invention or Swiss use of compositions for the manufacture of a medicament for treatment of the same disease or condition.

Multiple embodiments are contemplated for combination inventions described herein. For example some aspects of the invention that are described as a method of treatment or medical use combining two or more compounds or agents whether administered separately sequentially or simultaneously or in combination co formulated or mixed . For each aspect described in this manner the invention further includes a composition comprising the two or more compounds or agents co formulated or in admixture with each other and the invention further includes a kit or unit dose containing the two or more compounds agents packaged together but not in admixture. Optionally such compositions kits or doses further include one or more carriers in admixture with one or both agents or co packaged for formulation prior to administration to a subject. The reverse also is true some aspects of the invention are described herein as compositions useful for therapy and containing two or more therapeutic agents. Equivalent methods and uses are specifically contemplated.

Although the applicant s invented the full scope of the claims appended hereto the claims appended hereto are not intended to encompass within their scope the prior art work of others. Therefore in the event that statutory or judicially recognized prior art within the scope of a claim is brought to the attention of the applicants by a Patent Office or other entity or individual the applicant s reserve the right to exercise amendment rights under applicable patent laws to redefine the subject matter of such a claim to specifically exclude such prior art or obvious variations of statutory prior art from the scope of such a claim. Variations of the invention defined by such amended claims also are intended as aspects of the invention. Additional features and variations of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the entirety of this application and all such features are intended as aspects of the invention.

Further provided herein are use of compound of formula IV in the preparation of medicaments or in methods of treatment applications 

In some cases the compound of formula I II or V is a salt and Ris selected from Me Et CHpyridyl propyl CHCHOH benzyl CH difluorophenyl CHcyclopropyl CH 4 CHNH CO Ot butyl phenyl CH 5 nitrofuranyl CHCH 5 nitrofuranyl CH 2 5 CF furanyl CH fluorophenyl CH chlorophenyl CH nitrophenyl CH cyanophenyl CH Me C O Ph CH methyl phenyl CH trifluoromethylphenyl CH trifluoromethoxyphenyl CH difluoromethoxyphenyl CH 3 2 COMe thienyl CH 3 2 bromo thienyl CH 3 isoxazolyl CH 5 isoxazolyl CH 5 3 phenyl isoxazolyl CH 3 2 bromo pyridyl CH 3 thienyl CH 2 5 COEt furanyl CH 4 2 methyl thiazolyl CH 2 5 COMe furanyl CH 5 3 methyl isoxazolyl and CH CH Me phenyl. In some cases the salt is a compound of formula V . In various cases the salt is a compound of formula I . In various cases the salt is a compound of formula II . In various cases Ris a substituent on a pyridyl nitrogen. In various cases Ris a substituent on a thiazolyl nitrogen. In various cases Ris a substituent on a pyridonyl nitrogen.

In various embodiments the compound of any one of formula I V has a Rselected from methyl ethyl methoxy ethoxy and CH COR wherein R is methyl or ethyl. In some cases Ris ethyl. In various cases Ris CHCOMe. In various cases Ris methyl. In various cases Ris cyclopropyl.

One of the challenges facing clinical deployment of use an HSP70 inhibitor as a tauopathy therapeutic is that relatively few Hsp70 inhibitors are known and many of the first generation compounds such as methylene blue MB are not selective for Hsp70. In fact only a handful of known Hsp70 inhibitors including 115 7c and MKT 077 are Hsp70 selective in cells and none of these compounds are known to pass the blood brain barrier BBB . A BBB penetrant Hsp70 inhibitor can be used to further probe the relationship between Hsp70 and tau homeostasis in vivo and that such a compound might serve as a lead for the development of anti tau therapies.

The poor brain exposure of MKT 077 likely arises in part from its cationic pyridinium which contributes to predicted physicochemical properties clogP 0.9 tPSA 26.6 that are not typically associated with CNS penetration. Accordingly replacing this group with a neutral pyridine improves BBB permeability. A resulting compound YM 08 is predicted to have more favorable clogP 3.8 and tPSA 35.9 values.

YM 08 retains affinity for Hsp70 in vitro and selectively reduced pathogenic tau in brain slices. In mice YM 08 crossed the BBB and maintained a B P greater than 0.25 for 18 hours. Moreover YM 08 was quickly cleared from the kidney perhaps reducing the opportunity for renal damage. Thus YM 08 represents a suitable chemical scaffold for further development as a CNS penetrant Hsp70 inhibitor.

Binding of MKT 077 analogs to immobilized Hsp70 was evaluated using a competitive ELISA. In this established assay a biotinylated version of MKT 077 is bound to immobilized human Hsc70 HSPA8 and potential competitors are tested for their ability to block the interaction. It was first confirmed that both MKT 077 and YM 01 could inhibit binding with inhibition constant IC values of 6.4 0.23 and 3.2 0.23 M respectively. Interestingly YM 08 had an apparent ICof 0.61 0.05 M in the same assay strongly suggesting that the charged pyridinium is not required for binding and that the pyridine may even be favored . As further controls the truncated compounds YM 02 YM 03 YM 04 and YM 07 were tested. Removing the benzothiazole from YM 08 compound YM 07 significantly weakened affinity ICabout 5.8 1.5 M about 10 fold worse than YM 08 suggesting an important role for that group. Likewise switching the pyridine of YM 07 to a cationic pyridinium compound YM 04 further weakened affinity ICabout 15 3 M about 2 fold worse than YM 07 re enforcing the conclusion that the pyridine is preferred over the pyridinium. Finally removing the ring altogether compounds YM 02 and YM 03 abolished binding IC 50 M . To confirm the binding of YM 08 in a separate experimental platform its affinity for immobilized Hsc70and Hsp72 HSPA1 was directly measured by biolayer interferometry BLI and obtained Kvalues of about 4 and 2 M respectively . Together these results show that YM 08 binds to Hsp70 and that both the benzothiazole and pyridine pyridinium moieties are important for binding.

To further explore the interaction between YM 08 and Hsc70 docking simulations were performed in AUTODOCK 4.2 see the Methods section . Specifically YM 08 was docked to Hsc70 PDB 3C7N revealing two best clusters 6.0 and 5.6 kcal mol respectively that were both predicted to position YM 08 in a cleft between subdomains IIA and IIB adjacent to the nucleotide binding site. This pocket is framed by a number of residues including S208 S221 T222 D225 H227 and L228 that are known to be sensitive to addition of MKT 077. When the side chains of these residues were allowed to freely rotate they adjusted to define the YM08 binding pocket see . In this orientation the benzothiazole of YM 08 was predicted to access a deep cleft composed of hydrophobic and cationic residues T12 K70 R71 R75 V81 Y148 T203 G223 and T225 . This orientation is slightly offset from that adopted by MKT 077 indicating as suggested by the competition binding studies see the two molecules share a partially overlapping binding site.

Next the effect of chaperone functions by binding of YM 08 to Hsp70 was investigated. MKT 077 analogs have been reported to modestly inhibit ATP hydrolysis using a model Hsp70 system that includes yeast Hsp70 Ssa1 and the stimulatory co chaperone Hlj1. Using an identical assay system it was found that YM 08 also partially inhibited ATP turnover . Interestingly YM 08 only inhibited the Hlj1 stimulated ATPase activity with minimal effect on the intrinsic ATPase activity of Ssa1 . This profile is shared with other allosteric Hsp70 inhibitors. As another test of chaperone function the effects of the compounds on the binding of Hsp70 to a misfolded protein were measured. In previous work MKT 077 stabilized the interaction between prokaryotic Hsp70 DnaK and denatured luciferase. Briefly this assay involves immobilizing unfolded luciferase in microtiter plates and measuring binding to DnaK. Using this approach the MKT 077 analogs were tested and it was found that MKT 077 YM 01 and YM 08 50 M all significantly enhance binding by about 30 . Conversely the truncated molecules YM 02 YM 03 YM 04 and YM 07 had reduced activity. To explore whether YM 08 might also enhance binding of Hsp70 to a more physiologically relevant substrate binding of tau to immobilized human Hsc70 was measured. In this configuration YM 08 also enhanced the affinity of chaperone for the protein substrate . Together these studies show that YM 08 partially inhibits the enzymatic functions of Hsp70 family members and promotes tight binding to chaperone clients .

Hsp70 inhibitors including MKT 077 have been shown to accelerate degradation of tau and affect processing of other chaperone dependent substrates in cells. To determine whether YM 08 might also accelerated tau degradation HeLaC3 cells which stably over express human 4R0N tau were treated with compound. After 24 hours the levels of phosphorylated p396 404 tau and total tau were measured by Western blot. The results showed that YM 08 30 M decreased the levels of pS396 404 and total tau by about 40 and about 60 respectively . This cellular activity is not as dramatic as that of MKT 077 which reduced tau levels by 80 at 30 M however reducing tau by only about 50 is predicted to provide benefits in some AD models Importantly it was confirmed that like MKT 077 and other Hsp70 inhibitors YM 08 did not induce a stress response based on the unchanged levels of stress inducible Hsp72 HSPA1 in the treated cell lysates . Finally all of the truncated compounds had significantly reduced anti tau activity consistent with the in vitro binding studies and the proposed importance of each of the three ring systems.

YM 08 was tested whether it might retain the anti cancer activity of MKT 077. MTT assays showed that MKT 077 had ECvalues between 1.4 and 3.0 M against MCF 7 MCF 10A and MB MDA 231 cells . YM 01 had similar activity ECvalues between 2.0 and 5.2 M while YM 08 had diminished potency with ECvalues between 7.8 and 10.5 M . Notably the truncated molecules tended to have poor activity most ECvalues 30 M consistent with the binding results. It is possible that the residual activity for YM 02 and YM 07 especially in MCF7 cells may arise from off target effects.

Because MKT 077 binds to a dynamic allosteric site on Hsp70 that is not overlapping with the nucleotide binding cleft see and is far removed from the peptide binding region it was not expected to be direct correlations between the calculated binding affinity values and any effects on chaperone functions or cellular activity. Consistent with this idea the preliminary structure activity relationships SAR for this chemical series were complex especially when comparing in vitro values to potency in cellular assays. For example the truncated molecule YM 02 had weak affinity IC 50 M for Hsp70 in vitro see yet it has some residual activity in the luciferase binding and cell based anti tau assays . Also YM 08 had a superior affinity for Hsc70 see but reduced anti tau activity in cells when compared to the parent molecule MKT 077 see . Regardless of the allosteric mechanistic origins of these differences the results suggest that removing either the benzothiazole e.g. YM 07 or the pyridine pyridinium e.g. YM 02 reduced potency across all of the assay formats. Also the results support the conservative conclusions that YM 08 retained binding to Hsp70 and that it modestly reduced tau levels in cultured cells.

YM 08 activity in a more physiological system was tested. Brain slice cultures from transgenic mice that express mutated tau were treated for 6 hours with YM 08 and the levels of total and pS396 404 tau measured by Western blots. At both 30 and 100 M concentrations YM 08 reduced phospho tau in this model consistent with the cell culture model. Thus YM 08 also reduced the levels of disease associated tau in a neuronal model. Recent findings suggest that Hsp70 binds tau immediately after its release from microtubules. To test whether YM 08 might selectively reduce tau after microtubule disruption brain slices were cultured from wild type mice and treated them with YM 08 plus the microtubule destabilizer nocodazole. Treatment of these cultures with YM 08 alone did not significantly reduce tau levels consistent with the idea that most tau in non pathogenic conditions is associated with microtubules and not available for removal through the Hsp70 system. However acute disruption of the microtubule network with nocodazole dramatically increased the potency of YM 08 and led to decreased levels of both total and phospho tau . Together these studies add to growing evidence that Hsp70 selectively identifies tau variants that are not associated with the normal microtubule network likely minimizing their aggregation and proteotoxicity. Further these results suggest that enhancing the affinity of Hsp70 for tau using molecules such as YM 08 promotes proper tau triage.

The relative stability and pharmacokinetics of a charged YM 01 and neutral YM 08 analog were explored. To test their stability in aqueous media YM 01 or YM 08 100 M was incubated in water at room temperature and found that both compounds were stable for at least 8 hours . As an initial examination of the metabolism of YM 08 its stability in the presence of human liver microsomes was studied. In this system both YM 01 and YM 08 were rapidly metabolized tvalues of about 2 to 4 min largely by oxidation on the benzothiazole and pyridine ring systems . MKT 077 has a similar reported rate of metabolism. Together these results indicate that replacement of the charged pyridinium did not significantly impact metabolic or aqueous stability.

The initial pharmacokinetics PK of YM 01 and YM 08 were tested in CD1 mice. YM 01 20 mg kg saline was prevalent in the kidney at both 0.16 and 1 hrs after i.v. injection but it lacked detectable brain penetration . This result is consistent with the known properties of MKT 077. In contrast YM 08 10 mg kg 10 DMSO saline v v i.v. was abundant in the brain at 0.16 hrs with reduced retention in the kidney and rapid clearance from all compartments . These results suggested that YM 08 was BBB permeable consistent with its design. While these preliminary PK results were promising YM 08 was only marginally soluble in the DMSO saline mixture so it was re formulated in a Cremophor mixture and a more definitive analysis of the brain and plasma levels was performed over time in CD1 mice. After a single 6.6 mg kg dose delivered i.v. the peak brain concentration of YM 08 was 4 g g and the ratio in the brain plasma B P ratio was approximately 0.25 for 18 hrs . Typically B P values greater than 0.3 are considered promising for CNS leads suggesting that with additional optimization YM 08 could be a promising analog. It is not yet clear how much tau levels need to be reduced to achieve therapeutic effects in disease models but the area under the curve AUC for YM 08 in the brain was 0.26 g hr g and the AUCin plasma was 13.6 g hr mL. The terminal halftime in the brain t was 6.8 hrs and the twas 9.8 hrs consistent with the rapid metabolism observed in the liver microsome studies.

Thus derivatives of MKT 077 bind Hsp70 inhibit ATP turnover and enhance binding of Hsp70 to its clients . Although YM 08 was somewhat less effective then MKT 077 in anti tau and anti cancer assays it was BBB permeable and was not retained in the kidney.

Disclosed herein are compounds having a structure of formula I II III IV or V with the substituents as defined above 

The term alkyl used herein refers to a saturated straight or branched chain hydrocarbon group of carbon atoms including but not limited to methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl isobutyl tert butyl and the like. Alkyls of one to four carbon atoms are contemplated.

As used herein the term aryl refers to a monocyclic or polycyclic aromatic group preferably a monocyclic or bicyclic aromatic group e.g. phenyl or naphthyl. Unless otherwise indicated an aryl group can be unsubstituted or substituted with one or more and in particular one to four groups independently selected from for example halo alkyl alkenyl CF NO CN NC OH alkoxy amino COH COalkyl OC O alkyl aryl and heteroaryl. Exemplary aryl groups include but are not limited to phenyl naphthyl tetrahydronaphthyl fluorophenyl chlorophenyl difluorophenyl dichlorophenyl chlorofluorophenyl dicholorfluorophenyl chlorodifluorophenyl trifluorophenyl trichlorophenyl methylphenyl methoxyphenyl trifluoromethylphenyl nitrophenyl 2 4 methoxychlorophenyl and the like.

Further contemplated are compounds or salts thereof having a structure selected from the group consisting of

While the compounds shown above may indicate a specific salt e.g. Cl or TsO each of the structures is specifically contemplated as a generic acid addition salt X as disclosed herein and discussed directly below.

Pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds disclosed herein can be acid addition salts e.g. a salt of the compound disclosed with a corresponding pharmaceutically acceptable anion. Acids commonly employed to form pharmaceutically acceptable salts include inorganic acids such as hydrogen bisulfide hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid hydroiodic acid sulfuric acid and phosphoric acid as well as organic acids such as para toluenesulfonic acid salicylic acid tartaric acid bitartaric acid ascorbic acid maleic acid besylic acid fumaric acid gluconic acid glucuronic acid formic acid glutamic acid methanesulfonic acid ethanesulfonic acid benzenesulfonic acid lactic acid oxalic acid para bromophenylsulfonic acid carbonic acid succinic acid citric acid benzoic acid and acetic acid as well as related inorganic and organic acids. Such pharmaceutically acceptable salts anions thus include sulfate pyrosulfate bisulfate sulfite bisulfite phosphate monohydrogenphosphate dihydrogenphosphate metaphosphate pyrophosphate chloride bromide iodide acetate propionate decanoate caprylate acrylate formate isobutyrate caprate heptanoate propiolate oxalate malonate succinate suberate sebacate fumarate maleate butyne 1 4 dioate hexyne 1 6 dioate benzoate chlorobenzoate methylbenzoate dinitrobenzoate hydroxybenzoate methoxybenzoate phthalate terephthalate sulfonate xylene sulfonate phenylacetate phenylpropionate phenylbutyrate citrate lactate O hydroxybutyrate glycolate maleate tartrate methanesulfonate propanesulfonate naphthalene 1 sulfonate naphthalene 2 sulfonate mandelate and other salts. In one embodiment pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts include those formed with mineral acids such as hydrochloric acid and hydrobromic acid and especially those formed with organic acids such as maleic acid.

The Compounds Disclosed Herein can be Prepared Via any Methodology. As a guide provided here is a description of one means by which the compounds can be synthesized.

MKT 077 and derivatives were synthesized using a synthetic route as reported in JP 2004359801 see . Briefly this synthesis progressed through reaction of 2 methylthio benzothiazole 1 with p TsOMe to afford its methylthioiminium salt which was subsequently condensed with rhodanine 3 to afford compound 4 YM 02 . Compound 4 was further activated by p TsOMe to yield intermediate 5 YM 03 followed by condensation with either 1 2 dimethylpyridin 1 ium 6a or 1 ethyl 2 methylpyridin 1 ium 6b to afford 7a and 7b. Final counter ion exchange yielded MKT 077 and YM 01 in good overall yield about 25 . Adding to this series intermediates 4 and 6b were condensed to produce a truncated analog YM 04 which lacks the benzothiazole group. Next the neutral compound YM 08 was synthesized via condensation of the common intermediate 4 with 1 1 3 dioxoisoindolin 2 yl methyl 2 methylpyridin 1 ium bromide 8 to yield compound 9 . Deprotection of 9 with aqueous ammonium hydroxide yielded YM 08 in about 25 overall yield. As another control YM 07 a neutral analog of YM 04 was synthesized using a route reported in Pudhom et al. 14 8550 8563 2006 .

Compositions of compounds as disclosed herein are provided. In some embodiments compositions are provided that comprise an effective amount of a compound as disclosed herein and an acceptable excipient. In some cases the excipient is a pharmaceutically excipient carrier.

The term effective amount as used herein refer to an amount of a compound sufficient to affect the desired outcome e.g. regulate tau and or polyQ treat ameliorate or prevent the identified disease or condition e.g. a tauopathy or a cancer or to exhibit a detectable therapeutic prophylactic or inhibitory effect. The effect can be detected by for example an improvement in clinical condition reduction in symptoms or by any of the assays or clinical diagnostic tests described herein. The precise effective amount for a subject will depend upon the subject s body weight size and health the nature and extent of the condition and the therapeutic or combination of therapeutics selected for administration. Therapeutically and prophylactically effective amounts for a given situation can be determined by routine experimentation that is within the skill and judgment of the clinician.

Compositions can comprise an amount of a compound as disclosed herein of 0.01 mg to 5 g. Specific ranges of amounts of a compound as disclosed herein include 0.1 mg to 1000 mg 1 mg to 500 mg 1 mg to 400 mg 1 mg to 300 mg 1 mg to 200 mg 1 mg to 150 mg and 1 mg to 100 mg. Additionally or alternatively the amount of compound in a composition as disclosed herein is measured in mg kg. Contemplated mg kg doses of the disclosed compounds include about 0.001 mg kg to about 1000 mg kg. Specific ranges of doses in mg kg include about 0.1 mg kg to about 500 mg kg about 0.5 mg kg to about 200 mg kg about 1 mg kg to about 100 mg kg about 2 mg kg to about 50 mg kg and about 5 mg kg to about 30 mg kg.

In various embodiments administration of a composition as disclosed herein is by a single administration of the composition or can be administered over a period of time either in divided doses or in a continuous release composition or administration method e.g. a pump . However the compounds of the embodiments are administered to the subject the amounts of compound administered and the route of administration chosen should be selected to permit efficacious treatment of the disease condition. The composition can be administered once per day twice per day three times per day four times per day once every other day once every third day once a week once a month once every other month once every six months or once a year.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable excipient refers to an excipient for administration of a pharmaceutical agent such as the compounds described herein. The term refers to any pharmaceutical excipient that may be administered without undue toxicity. Excipients include carriers solvents stabilizers adjuvants diluents etc.

Pharmaceutically acceptable excipients are determined in part by the particular composition being administered as well as by the particular method used to administer the composition. Accordingly there exists a wide variety of suitable formulations of pharmaceutical compositions see e.g. Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences .

Suitable excipients may be carrier molecules that include large slowly metabolized macromolecules such as proteins polysaccharides polylactic acids polyglycolic acids polymeric amino acids amino acid copolymers and inactive virus particles. Other exemplary excipients include antioxidants e.g. ascorbic acid chelating agents e.g. EDTA carbohydrates e.g. dextrin hydroxyalkylcellulose and or hydroxyalkylmethylcellulose stearic acid liquids e.g. oils water saline glycerol and or ethanol wetting or emulsifying agents pH buffering substances and the like. Liposomes are also included within the definition of pharmaceutically acceptable excipients.

In some embodiments the pharmaceutical composition is formulated to achieve a physiologically compatible pH and may range from a pH of about 3 to a pH of about 11 about pH 3 to about pH 7 depending on the formulation and route of administration. In alternative embodiments the pH is adjusted to a range from about pH 5.0 to about pH 8. More particularly in various cases the pharmaceutical compositions comprise a therapeutically or prophylactically effective amount of at least one compound as described herein together with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients.

The compound or composition comprising the compound is administered by any route that permits treatment of the disease or condition. One route of administration is oral administration. Additionally the compound or composition comprising the compound may be delivered to a patient using any standard route of administration including parenterally such as intravenously intraperitoneally intrapulmonary subcutaneously or intramuscularly intrathecally topically transdermally rectally orally nasally or by inhalation. Slow release compositions are be prepared from the agents described herein in order to achieve a controlled release of the active agent in contact with the body fluids in the gastro intestinal tract and to provide a substantial constant and effective level of the active agent in the blood plasma. In some cases the crystal form of a compound as disclosed herein is embedded for this purpose in a polymer matrix of a biological degradable polymer a water soluble polymer or a mixture of both and optionally suitable surfactants. Embedding can mean in this context the incorporation of micro particles in a matrix of polymers. Controlled release formulations are also obtained through encapsulation of dispersed micro particles or emulsified micro droplets via known dispersion or emulsion coating technologies.

The pharmaceutical compositions described herein are formulated in any form suitable for an intended method of administration. When intended for oral use for example tablets troches lozenges aqueous or oil suspensions non aqueous solutions dispersible powders or granules including micronized particles or nanoparticles emulsions hard or soft capsules syrups or elixirs may be prepared. Compositions intended for oral use may be prepared according to any method known to the art for the manufacture of pharmaceutical compositions and such compositions may contain one or more agents including sweetening agents flavoring agents coloring agents and preserving agents in order to provide a palatable preparation.

Compositions e.g. for parenteral or oral administration are most typically solids liquid solutions emulsions or suspensions while inhalable formulations for pulmonary administration are generally liquids or powders. In various cases a pharmaceutical composition is formulated as a lyophilized solid that is reconstituted with a physiologically compatible solvent prior to administration. Alternative pharmaceutical compositions are formulated as syrups creams ointments tablets and the like.

Pharmaceutically acceptable excipients particularly suitable for use in conjunction with tablets include for example inert diluents such as celluloses calcium or sodium carbonate lactose calcium or sodium phosphate disintegrating agents such as cross linked povidone maize starch or alginic acid binding agents such as povidone starch gelatin or acacia and lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate stearic acid or talc.

Tablets may be uncoated or may be coated by known techniques including microencapsulation to delay disintegration and adsorption in the gastrointestinal tract and thereby provide a sustained action over a longer period. For example a time delay carrier such as glyceryl monostearate or glyceryl distearate alone or with a wax may be employed.

Compositions for oral use may be also presented as hard gelatin capsules wherein the active ingredient is mixed with an inert solid excipient for example celluloses lactose calcium phosphate or kaolin or as soft gelatin capsules wherein the active ingredient is mixed with non aqueous or oil medium such as glycerin propylene glycol polyethylene glycol peanut oil liquid paraffin or olive oil.

In another embodiment pharmaceutical compositions are formulated as suspensions comprising a compound of the embodiments in admixture with at least one pharmaceutically acceptable excipient suitable for the manufacture of a suspension.

In yet another embodiment pharmaceutical compositions are formulated as dispersible powders and granules suitable for preparation of a suspension by the addition of suitable excipients.

Excipients suitable for use in connection with suspensions include suspending agents e.g. sodium carboxymethylcellulose methylcellulose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose sodium alginate polyvinylpyrrolidone gum tragacanth gum acacia dispersing or wetting agents e.g. a naturally occurring phosphatide e.g. lecithin a condensation product of an alkylene oxide with a fatty acid e.g. polyoxyethylene stearate a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a long chain aliphatic alcohol e.g. heptadecaethyleneoxycethanol a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a partial ester derived from a fatty acid and a hexitol anhydride e.g. polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate and thickening agents e.g. carbomer beeswax hard paraffin or cetyl alcohol . In some cases the suspensions also contain one or more preservatives e.g. acetic acid methyl or n propyl p hydroxy benzoate one or more coloring agents one or more flavoring agents and one or more sweetening agents such as sucrose or saccharin.

In various embodiments the pharmaceutical compositions are oil in water emulsions. The oily phase may be a vegetable oil such as olive oil or arachis oil a mineral oil such as liquid paraffin or a mixture of these. Suitable excipients for oil in water emulsions include emulsifying agents such as naturally occurring gums such as gum acacia and gum tragacanth naturally occurring phosphatides such as soybean lecithin esters or partial esters derived from fatty acids hexitol anhydrides such as sorbitan monooleate and condensation products of these partial esters with ethylene oxide such as polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate. In some embodiments the emulsion also contains sweetening and flavoring agents. In various cases syrups and elixirs are formulated with sweetening agents such as glycerol sorbitol or sucrose. Such compositions in some cases also contain a demulcent a preservative a flavoring or a coloring agent.

Additionally in various embodiments the pharmaceutical compositions are sterile injectable preparation such as a sterile injectable aqueous emulsion or oleaginous suspension. This emulsion or suspension may be formulated by a person of ordinary skill in the art using those suitable excipients such as dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents including those mentioned above. The sterile injectable preparation may also be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a non toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent such as a solution in 1 2 propane diol.

In some cases the sterile injectable preparation is prepared as a lyophilized powder. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be employed are water Ringer s solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition sterile fixed oils may be employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil may be employed including synthetic mono or diglycerides. In addition fatty acids e.g. oleic acid may likewise be used in the preparation of injectables.

To obtain a stable water soluble dose form of a pharmaceutical composition a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of a compound described herein is dissolved in an aqueous solution of an organic or inorganic acid such as 0.3 M solution of e.g. succinic acid or citric acid. If a soluble salt form is not available the compound is dissolved in a suitable co solvent or combination of co solvents. Examples of suitable co solvents include alcohol propylene glycol polyethylene glycol 300 polysorbate 80 glycerin and the like in concentrations ranging from about 0 to about 60 of the total volume. In one embodiment the active compound is dissolved in DMSO and diluted with water.

In various embodiments the pharmaceutical composition is a solution of a salt form of the compound in an appropriate aqueous vehicle such as water or isotonic saline or dextrose solution. Also contemplated are compounds which have been modified by substitutions or additions of chemical or biochemical moieties which make them more suitable for delivery e.g. increase solubility bioactivity palatability decrease adverse reactions etc. for example by esterification glycosylation PEGylation etc.

In some embodiments the compounds described herein are formulated for oral administration in a lipid based formulation suitable for low solubility compounds. Lipid based formulations can generally enhance the oral bioavailability of such compounds. As such pharmaceutical compositions comprise a therapeutically or prophylactically effective amount of a compound described herein together with at least one pharmaceutically acceptable excipient selected from the group consisting of medium chain fatty acids and propylene glycol esters thereof e.g. propylene glycol esters of edible fatty acids such as caprylic and capric fatty acids and pharmaceutically acceptable surfactants such as polyoxyl 40 hydrogenated castor oil.

In some embodiments cyclodextrins are added as aqueous solubility enhancers. Exemplary cyclodextrins include hydroxypropyl hydroxyethyl glucosyl maltosyl and maltotriosyl derivatives of and cyclodextrin. A specific cyclodextrin solubility enhancer is hydroxypropyl o cyclodextrin BPBC which may be added to any of the above described compositions to further improve the aqueous solubility characteristics of the compounds of the embodiments. In one embodiment the composition comprises about 0.1 to about 20 hydroxypropyl o cyclodextrin about 1 to about 15 hydroxypropyl o cyclodextrin and from about 2.5 to about 10 hydroxypropyl o cyclodextrin. The amount of solubility enhancer employed will depend on the amount of the compound of the invention in the composition.

Methods disclosed herein include methods of treating cancer or a disorder associated with tau aggregation or use of a compound as disclosed herein in the preparation of a medicament to treat cancer or a disorder associated with tau aggregation. Specific disorders contemplated are discussed in detail below.

Provided herein are methods of different types of cancer in a subject e.g. a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the subject the compound or composition as described herein in an amount effective to treat said cancer. In some cases the mammalian subject is a human subject. Practice of methods described herein in other mammalian subjects especially mammals that are conventionally used as models for demonstrating therapeutic efficacy in humans e.g. primate porcine canine or rabbit animals is also contemplated. Standard dose response studies are used to optimize dose and dosing schedule.

The disclosed methods are useful for treating cancer for example inhibiting cancer growth including complete cancer remission for inhibiting cancer metastasis and for promoting cancer resistance. The term cancer growth generally refers to any one of a number of indices that suggest change within the cancer to a more developed form. Thus indices for measuring an inhibition of cancer growth include but are not limited to a decrease in cancer cell survival a decrease in tumor volume or morphology for example as determined using computed tomographic CT sonography or other imaging method a delayed tumor growth a destruction of tumor vasculature improved performance in delayed hypersensitivity skin test an increase in the activity of cytolytic T lymphocytes and a decrease in levels of tumor specific antigens.

The term cancer resistance refers to an improved capacity of a subject to resist cancer growth in particular growth of a cancer already had. In other words the term cancer resistance refers to a decreased propensity for cancer growth in a subject.

In one aspect the cancer comprises a solid tumor for example a carcinoma and a sarcoma. Carcinomas include malignant neoplasms derived from epithelial cells which infiltrate for example invade surrounding tissues and give rise to metastases. Adenocarcinomas are carcinomas derived from glandular tissue or from tissues that form recognizable glandular structures. Another broad category of cancers includes sarcomas and fibrosarcomas which are tumors whose cells are embedded in a fibrillar or homogeneous substance such as embryonic connective tissue. The invention also provides methods of treatment of cancers of myeloid or lymphoid systems including leukemias lymphomas and other cancers that typically are not present as a tumor mass but are distributed in the vascular or lymphoreticular systems. Further contemplated are methods for treatment of adult and pediatric oncology growth of solid tumors malignancies myxoid and round cell carcinoma locally advanced tumors cancer metastases including lymphatic metastases. The cancers listed herein are not intended to be limiting. Age child and adult sex male and female primary and secondary pre and post metastatic acute and chronic benign and malignant anatomical location cancer embodiments and variations are contemplated targets. Cancers are grouped by embryonic origin e.g. carcinoma lymphomas and sarcomas by organ or physiological system and by miscellaneous grouping. Particular cancers may overlap in their classification and their listing in one group does not exclude them from another.

Carcinomas that may targeted include adrenocortical acinar acinic cell acinous adenocystic adenoid cystic adenoid squamous cell cancer adenomatosum adenosquamous adnexel cancer of adrenal cortex adrenocortical aldosterone producing aldosterone secreting alveolar alveolar cell ameloblastic ampullary anaplastic cancer of thyroid gland apocrine basal cell basal cell alveolar comedo basal cell cystic basal cell morphea like basal cell multicentric basal cell nodulo ulcerative basal cell pigmented basal cell sclerosing basal cell superficial basal cell basaloid basosquamous cell bile duct extrahepatic bile duct intrahepatic bile duct bronchioalveolar bronchiolar bronchioloalveolar bronchoalveolar bronchoalveolar cell bronchogenic cerebriform cholangiocelluarl chorionic choroids plexus clear cell cloacogenic anal colloid comedo corpus cancer of corpus uteri cortisol producing cribriform cylindrical cylindrical cell duct ductal ductal cancer of the prostate ductal cancer in situ DCIS eccrine embryonal cancer en cuirasse endometrial cancer of endometrium endometroid epidermoid cancer ex mixed tumor cancer ex pleomorphic adenoma exophytic fibrolamellar cancer fibro sum follicular cancer of thyroid gland gastric gelatinform gelatinous giant cell giant cell cancer of thyroid gland cancer gigantocellulare glandular granulose cell hepatocellular H rthle cell hypernephroid infantile embryonal islet cell carcinoma inflammatory cancer of the breast cancer in situ intraductal intraepidermal intraepithelial juvenile embryonal Kulchitsky cell large cell leptomeningeal lobular infiltrating lobular invasive lobular lobular cancer in situ LCIS lymphoepithelial cancer medullare medullary medullary cancer of thyroid gland medullary thyroid melanotic meningeal Merkel cell metatypical cell micropapillary mucinous cancer muciparum cancer mucocellulare mucoepidermoid cancer mucosum mucous nasopharyngeal neuroendocrine cancer of the skin noninfiltrating non small cell non small cell lung cancer NSCLC oat cell cancer ossificans osteoid Paget s papillary papillary cancer of thyroid gland periampullary preinvasive prickle cell primary intrasseous renal cell scar schistosomal bladder Schneiderian scirrhous sebaceous signet ring cell cancer simplex small cell small cell lung cancer SCLC spindle cell cancer spongiosum squamous squamous cell terminal duct anaplastic thyroid follicular thyroid medullary thyroid papillary thyroid trabecular cancer of the skin transitional cell tubular undifferentiated cancer of thyroid gland uterine corpus verrucous villous cancer villosum yolk sac squamous cell particularly of the head and neck esophageal squamous cell and oral cancers and carcinomas.

Sarcomas that may be targeted include adipose alveolar soft part ameloblastic avian botryoid sarcoma botryoides chicken chloromatous chondroblastic clear cell sarcoma of kidney embryonal endometrial stromal epithelioid Ewing s fascial fibroblastic fowl giant cell granulocytic hemangioendothelial Hodgkin s idiopathic multiple pigmented hemorrhagic immunoblastic sarcoma of B cells immunoblastic sarcoma of T cells Jensen s Kaposi s kupffer cell leukocytic lymphatic melanotic mixed cell multiple lymphangio idiopathic hemorrhagic multipotential primary sarcoma of bone osteoblastic osteogenic parosteal polymorphous pseudo kaposi reticulum cell reticulum cell sarcoma of the brain rhabdomyosarcoma rous soft tissue spindle cell synovial telangiectatic sarcoma osteosarcoma malignant fibrous histiocytoma of bone and soft tissue sarcomas.

Lymphomas that may be targeted include AIDS related non Hodgkin s Hodgkin s T cell T cell leukemia lymphoma African B cell B cell monocytoid bovine malignant Burkitt s centrocytic lymphoma cutis diffuse diffuse large cell diffuse mixed small and large cell diffuse small cleaved cell follicular follicular center cell follicular mixed small cleaved and large cell follicular predominantly large cell follicular predominantly small cleaved cell giant follicle giant follicular granulomatous histiocytic large cell immunoblastic large cleaved cell large nocleaved cell Lennert s lymphoblastic lymphocytic intermediate lymphocytic intermediately differentiated plasmacytoid poorly differentiated lymphocytic small lymphocytic well differentiated lymphocytic lymphoma of cattle MALT mantle cell mantle zone marginal zone Mediterranean lymphoma mixed lymphocytic histiocytic nodular plasmacytoid pleomorphic primary central nervous system primary effusion small b cell small cleaved cell small concleaved cell T cell lymphomas convoluted T cell cutaneous t cell small lymphocytic T cell undefined lymphoma u cell undifferentiated aids related central nervous system cutaneous T cell effusion body cavity based thymic lymphoma and cutaneous T cell lymphomas.

Leukemias and other blood cell malignancies that may be targeted include acute lymphoblastic acute myeloid acute lymphocytic acute myelogenous leukemia chronic myelogenous hairy cell erythroleukemia lymphoblastic myeloid lymphocytic myelogenous leukemia hairy cell T cell monocytic myeloblastic granulocytic gross hand mirror cell basophilic hemoblastic histiocytic leukopenic lymphatic Schilling s stem cell myelomonocytic monocytic prolymphocytic promyelocytic micromyeloblastic megakaryoblastic megakaryoctyic rieder cell bovine aleukemic mast cell myelocytic plamsa cell subleukemic multiple myeloma nonlymphocytic chronic myelogenous leukemia chronic lymphocytic leukemia polycythemia vera lymphoma Hodgkin s disease non Hodgkin s lymphoma indolent and high grade forms multiple myeloma Waldenstrom s macroglobulinemia heavy chain disease myelodysplastic syndrome and myelodysplasia and chronic myelocytic leukemias.

Brain and central nervous system CNS cancers and tumors that may be targeted include astrocytomas including cerebellar and cerebral brain stem glioma brain tumors malignant gliomas ependymoma glioblastoma medulloblastoma supratentorial primitive neuroectodermal tumors visual pathway and hypothalamic gliomas primary central nervous system lymphoma ependymoma brain stem glioma visual pathway and hypothalamic glioma extracranial germ cell tumor medulloblastoma myelodysplastic syndromes oligodendroglioma myelodysplastic myeloproliferative diseases myelogenous leukemia myeloid leukemia multiple myeloma myeloproliferative disorders neuroblastoma plasma cell neoplasm multiple myeloma central nervous system lymphoma intrinsic brain tumors astrocytic brain tumors gliomas and metastatic tumor cell invasion in the central nervous system.

Gastrointestimal cancers that may be targeted include extrahepatic bile duct cancer colon cancer colon and rectum cancer colorectal cancer gallbladder cancer gastric stomach cancer gastrointestinal carcinoid tumor gastronintestinal carcinoid tumors gastrointestinal stromal tumors bladder cancers islet cell carcinoma endocrine pancreas pancreatic cancer islet cell pancreatic cancer prostate cancer rectal cancer salivary gland cancer small intestine cancer colon cancer and polyps associated with colorectal neoplasia.

Lung and respiratory cancers that may be targeted include bronchial adenomas carcinoids esophagus cancer esophageal cancer esophageal cancer hypopharyngeal cancer laryngeal cancer hypopharyngeal cancer lung carcinoid tumor non small cell lung cancer small cell lung cancer small cell carcinoma of the lungs mesothelioma nasal cavity and paranasal sinus cancer nasopharyngeal cancer nasopharyngeal cancer oral cancer oral cavity and lip cancer oropharyngeal cancer paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer and pleuropulmonary blastoma.

Urinary tract and reproductive cancers that may be targeted include cervical cancer endometrial cancer ovarian epithelial cancer extragonadal germ cell tumor extracranial germ cell tumor extragonadal germ cell tumor ovarian germ cell tumor gestational trophoblastic tumor spleen kidney cancer ovarian cancer ovarian epithelial cancer ovarian germ cell tumor ovarian low malignant potential tumor penile cancer renal cell cancer including carcinomas renal cell cancer renal pelvis and ureter transitional cell cancer transitional cell cancer of the renal pelvis and ureter gestational trophoblastic tumor testicular cancer ureter and renal pelvis transitional cell cancer urethral cancer endometrial uterine cancer uterine sarcoma vaginal cancer vulvar cancer ovarian carcinoma primary peritoneal epithelial neoplasms cervical carcinoma uterine cancer and solid tumors in the ovarian follicle superficial bladder tumors invasive transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder and muscle invasive bladder cancer.

Skin cancers and melanomas as well as non melanomas that may be targeted include cutaneous t cell lymphoma intraocular melanoma tumor progression of human skin keratinocytes basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell cancer. Liver cancers that may be targeted include extrahepatic bile duct cancer and hepatocellular cancers. Eye cancers that may be targeted include intraocular melanoma retinoblastoma and intraocular melanoma Hormonal cancers that may be targeted include parathyroid cancer pineal and supratentorial primitive neuroectodermal tumors pituitary tumor thymoma and thymic carcinoma thymoma thymus cancer thyroid cancer cancer of the adrenal cortex and ACTH producing tumors.

Miscellaneous other cancers that may be targeted include advanced cancers AIDS related anal cancer adrenal cortical aplastic anemia aniline betel buyo cheek cerebriform chimney sweeps clay pipe colloid contact cystic dendritic cancer a deux duct dye workers encephaloid cancer en cuirasse endometrial endothelial epithelial glandular cancer in situ kang kangri latent medullary melanotic mule spinners non small cell lung occult cancer paraffin pitch workers scar schistosomal bladder scirrhous lymph node small cell lung soft soot spindle cell swamp tar and tubular cancers.

Miscellaneous other cancers that may be targeted also include carcinoid gastrointestinal and bronchal Castleman s disease chronic myeloproliferative disorders clear cell sarcoma of tendon sheaths Ewing s family of tumors head and neck cancer lip and oral cavity cancer Waldenstrom s macroglobulinemia metastatic squamous neck cancer with occult primary multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome multiple myeloma plasma cell neoplasm Wilms tumor mycosis fungoides pheochromocytoma sezary syndrome supratentorial primitive neuroectodermal tumors unknown primary site peritoneal effusion malignant pleural effusion trophoblastic neo plasms and hemangiopericytoma.

Further contemplated are methods further comprising contacting a cancerous cell or administering to a subject with cancer a second therapeutic in addition to the compound disclosed herein. The second therapeutic can be a proteasome inhibitor or a HSP90 inhibitor. The second therapeutic can be a chemotherapeutic biological response modifying agent or a immunotherapeutic agent.

Contemplated chemotherapeutics for use in combination therapies as disclosed herein include aspirin sulindac curcumin alkylating agents including nitrogen mustards such as mechlor ethamine cyclophosphamide ifosfamide melphalan and chlorambucil nitrosoureas such as carmustine BCNU lomustine CCNU and semustine methyl CCNU ethylenimines methylmelamine such as thriethylenemelamine TEM triethylene thiophosphoramide thiotepa hexamethylmelamine HMM altretamine alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan triazines such as dacarbazine DTIC antimetabolites including folic acid analogs such as methotrexate and trimetrexate pyrimidine analogs such as 5 fluorouracil fluorodeoxyuridine gemcitabine cytosine arabinoside AraC cytarabine 5 azacytidine 2 2 difluorodeoxycytidine purine analogs such as 6 mercaptopurine 6 thioguanine azathioprine 2 deoxycoformycin pentostatin erythrohydroxynonyladenine EHNA fludarabine phosphate and 2 chlorodeoxyadenosine cladribine 2 CdA natural products including antimitotic drugs such as paclitaxel vinca alkaloids including vinblastine VLB vincristine and vinorelbine taxotere estramustine and estramustine phosphate epipodophylotoxins such as etoposide and teniposide antibiotics such as actimomycin D daunomycin rubidomycin doxorubicin mitoxantrone idarubicin bleomycins plicamycin mithramycin mitomycinC and actinomycin and enzymes such as L asparaginase

Contemplated biological response modifying agents for use in combination therapies as disclosed herein include but are not limited to interferon alpha IL 2 G CSF and GM CSF miscellaneous agents including platinum coordination complexes such as cisplatin and carboplatin anthracenediones such as mitoxantrone substituted urea such as hydroxyurea methylhydrazine derivatives including N methylhydrazine MIH and procarbazine adrenocortical suppressants such as mitotane o p DDD and aminoglutethimide hormones and antagonists including adrenocorticosteroid antagonists such as prednisone and equivalents dexamethasone and aminoglutethimide progestin such as hydroxyprogesterone caproate medroxyprogesterone acetate and megestrol acetate estrogen such as diethylstilbestrol and ethinyl estradiol equivalents antiestrogen such as tamoxifen androgens including testosterone propionate and fluoxymesterone equivalents antiandrogens such as flutamide gonadotropin releasing hormone analogs and leuprolide non steroidal antiandrogens such as flutamide kinase inhibitors histone deacetylase inhibitors methylation inhibitors proteasome inhibitors monoclonal antibodies oxidants anti oxidants telomerase inhibitors BH3 mimetics ubiquitin ligase inhibitors stat inhibitors and receptor tyrosin kinase inhibitors such as imatinib mesylate marketed as Gleevac or Glivac and erlotinib an EGF receptor inhibitor now marketed as Tarveca anti virals such as oseltamivir phosphate Amphotericin B and palivizumab HSP90 inhibitors such as 17 DMAG radicicol and NVP AUY922 and proteasome inhibitors such as bortezomib and carfilzomib.

Contemplated immunotherapeutic agents for use in the combination therapies disclosed herein include but are not limited to a Her2 neu receptor antibody such as trastuzumab marketed as Herceptin an anti CD52 antibody such as alemtuzumab marketed as Campath . MabCampath or Campath 1H an anti CD33 antibody such as gemtuzumab linked to calicheamicin marketed as Mylotarg an anti CD20 antibody such as rituximab marketed as Rituxan and MabThera Ibritumomab tiuxetan marketed as Zevalin anti TNF antibodies such as infliximab marketed as Remicade or adalimumab marketed as Humira a soluble TNFR2 molscule such as etanercept marketed as Enbrel an antibody to the CD25 chain of the IL 2 receptor such as basiliximab marketed as Simulect an anti CD40 CD40L antibody such as humanized IgG1 anti human CD40 antibody SGN 40 an anti CTLA 4 blocking antibody such as iplimumab marketed as MDX 101 or MDX 010 or tremelimumab an anti programmed death protein 1 PD 1 antibody i.e. an anti CD279 antibody an anti programmed cell death ligand PDL 1 antibody an anti glucocorticoid induced TNFR related gene GITR antibody an anti OX 40 CD134 antibody soluble lymphocyte activation gene 3 also known asLAG3 or CD223 based immune modulator such as LAGS Ig IMP321 Toll like receptor agonists such as monophosphoril lipid A MPL CpG single stranded RNA nucleotides nucleotide analogue CL087 a TLR7 specific ligand loxoribine polyinosine polycytidylic acid flagellin resiquimod immiquimod gardiquimod NOD ligands such as muramyl dipeptide murabutide peptidoglycan and muramyldipeptide.

Further provided are methods of regulating tau and or polyQ comprising contacting tau and or polyQ with a compound as disclosed herein. The neutral compounds can cross the blood brain barrier to impact tau aggregation and or polyQ which can lead to treatment or amelioration of a tauopathy or neurodegenerative disorder. PolyQ refers to any protein having a stretch of consecutive glutamine residues which are linked to a disease. Examples include huntingtin androgen receptor and ataxin 2.

In some cases methods are provided that reduce tau aggregation and or reduce polyQ aggregation comprising contacting aggregates of tau and or aggregates of polyQ with a compound as disclosed herein in an amount effective to reduce tau aggregation and or polyQ aggregation. In various cases methods are provided that reduce tau levels and or reduce polyQ levels in a cell comprising contacting the cell with a compound as disclosed herein in an amount effective to reduce tau levels and or polyQ levels in the cell. In some cases methods are provided that inhibit tau aggregation and or inhibit polyQ aggregation in a cell comprising contacting the cell with a compound as disclosed herein in an amount effective to inhibit tau aggregation and or polyQ aggregation. In various cases methods are provided that reverse tau aggregation and or reverse polyQ aggregation in a cell comprising contacting the cell with a compound as disclosed herein in an amount effective to reverse tau aggregation and or polyQ aggregation. In various embodiments regulation of tau and or regulation of polyQ in the methods provided herein is in vitro or in vivo and in some cases is associated with a disease state as discussed herein.

In some cases provided herein are methods that further include identifying a subject having a disorder affected by tau or polyQ and administering to the subject a compound as disclosed herein. The subject can be a mammal or more specifically a human.

In various cases the methods provided herein are prophylactic methods and a compound or composition as disclosed herein is administered prior to onset of a disorder. In certain cases the method further comprises identifying a subject at risk of contracting a disorder associated with tau levels or aggregation and or polyQ levels or aggregation and administering an effective amount of a compound as disclosed herein.

In various aspects the methods disclosed herein are useful for treating or ameliorating one or more symptoms of a neurodegenerative disorder. In some cases the neurodegenerative disorder is one or more of Alzheimer s disease Pick s disease Progressive Supranuclear Palsy PSP fronto temporal dementia FTD parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 FTDP 17 disinhibition dementia parkinsonism amyotrophy complex DDPAC pallido ponto nigral degeneration PPND Guam ALS syndrome pallido nigro luysian degeneration PNLD Huntington s disease Kennedy disease dentatorubropallidoluysian atrophy Spinocerebellar ataxia Machado Joseph disease cortico basal degeneration CBD and traumatic brain injury.

In some embodiments regulation of tau and or polyQ in the presence of a compound as disclosed herein is measured using a dose response assay in which a sensitive assay system is contacted with a compound of interest over a range of concentrations including concentrations at which no or minimal effect is observed through higher concentrations at which partial effect is observed to saturating concentrations at which a maximum effect is observed. Theoretically such assays of the dose response effect of compounds can be described as a sigmoidal curve expressing a degree of modulation as a function of concentration. The curve also theoretically passes through a point at which the concentration is sufficient to affect tau and or polyglutamine aggregation and or levels to an amount that is 50 that of the difference between minimal and maximal activity in the assay. This concentration is defined as the Inhibitory Concentration 50 or ICvalue. Determination of ICvalues is made using conventional acellular assay techniques or cell based assay techniques.

Comparisons of the efficacy of compounds often are provided with reference to comparative ICvalues wherein a higher ICindicates that the test compound is less potent and a lower ICindicates that the compound is more potent than a reference compound. Compounds demonstrating ICvalues of less than about 1500 M or less than about 1000 M or less than about 250 M or less than about 100 M or less than about 50 M or less than about 20 M or less than about 1 M or less than 750 nM or less than 700 nM or less than 650 nM can be employed in compositions or methods according to the invention.

The data obtained in such dose response assays can be used as a factor in formulating a dosage range for use in subject such as animals mammals and more specifically humans. In some embodiments the dosage of such compounds lies within a range of circulating concentrations that include the effective dose that produces a therapeutic response in 50 of the people taking it ED with little or no toxicity. The dosage can vary within this range depending upon the dosage form and the route of administration utilized.

The methods of the embodiments also include the use of a compound or compounds as described herein together with one or more additional anti tau therapeutic agents for the treatment of a tauopathy. Thus for example the combination of active ingredients may be 1 co formulated and administered simultaneously in a combined formulation 2 delivered by alternation or in parallel as separate formulations or 3 by any other combination therapy regimen known in the art. When delivered in alternation therapy the methods described herein may comprise administering or delivering the active ingredients sequentially e.g. in separate solution emulsion suspension tablets pills or capsules or by different injections in separate syringes. In general during alternation therapy an effective dosage of each active ingredient is administered sequentially i.e. serially whereas in simultaneous therapy effective dosages of two or more active ingredients are administered together. Various sequences of intermittent combination therapy may also be used.

The anti tau therapeutic agent can be administered at the same time as the compound as disclosed herein or at a different time e.g. separated by a time period of about 1 hour to about 12 hours . In cases where the agents are administered at the same time the agents can be co formulated or formulated in separate formulations but given at the same time or within about 30 minutes of each other.

In some cases a compound disclosed herein is administered and or formulated with an anti tau therapeutic e.g. an agent that treats or ameliorates a symptom of a tauopathy disorder. The anti tau therapeutic can be for example one or more of nootropic agents neuroprotectants antiparkinsonian drugs amyloid protein deposition inhibitors beta amyloid synthesis inhibitors antidepressants anxiolytic drugs antipsychotic drugs and anti multiple sclerosis drugs.

More specifically the anti tau therapeutic is selected from the group consisting of 3 amyloid antibodies cysteine protease inhibitors PEP inhibitors LiCl acetylcholinesterase AChE inhibitors PIMT enhancers inhibitors of beta secretases inhibitors of gamma secretases inhibitors of aminopeptidases preferably inhibitors of dipeptidyl peptidases most preferably DP IV inhibitors inhibitors of neutral endopeptidase inhibitors of phosphodiesterase 4 PDE 4 TNF inhibitors muscarinic M1 receptor antagonists NMDA receptor antagonists sigma 1 receptor inhibitors histamine H3 antagonists immunomodulatory agents immunosuppressive agents MCP 1 antagonists or an agent selected from the group consisting of antegren natalizumab Neurelan fampridine SR campath alemtuzumab IR 208 NBI 5788 MSP 771 tiplimotide paclitaxel Anergix.MS AG 284 SH636 Differin CD 271 adapalene BAY 361677 interleukin 4 matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors e.g. BB 76163 interferon tau trophoblastin and SAIK MS.

Further examples of useful anti tau therapeutic agents include specific amyloid antibodies e.g. ACU 5A5 huC091 Acumen Merck PF 4360365 RI 1014 RI 1219 RI 409 RN 1219 Rinat Neuroscience Corp Pfizer Inc the nanobody therapeutics of Ablynx Boehringer Ingelheim beta amyloid specific humanized monoclonal antibodies of Intellect Neurosciences IBL m266 m266.2 Eli Lilly Co. AAB 02 Elan bapineuzumab Elan BAN 2401 Bioarctic Neuroscience AB ABP 102 Abiogen Pharma SpA BA 27 BC 05 Takeda R 1450 Roche ESBA 212 ESBATech AG AZD 3102 AstraZeneca and beta amyloid antibodies of Mindset BioPharmaceuticals Inc. carbidopa levodopa pergolide bromocriptine ropinirole pramipexole entacapone tolcapone selegiline amantadine trihexyphenidyl hydrochloride amyloid synthesis inhibitors Bisnorcymserine Axonyx Inc. R flurbiprofen MCP 7869 Flurizan Myriad Genetics nitroflurbiprofen NicOx BGC 20 0406 Sankyo Co. Ltd. and BGC 20 0466 BTG plc. amyloid protein deposition inhibitors SP 233 Samaritan Pharmaceuticals AZD 103 Ellipsis Neurotherapeutics Inc. AAB 001 Bapineuzumab AAB 002 ACC 001 Elan Corp plc. Colostrinin ReGen Therapeutics plc. Tramiprosate Neurochem AdPEDI amyloid beta1 6 11 Vaxin Inc. MPI 127585 MPI 423948 Mayo Foundation SP 08 Georgetown University ACU 5A5 Acumen Merck Transthyretin State University of New York PTI 777 DP 74 DP 68 Exebryl ProteoTech Inc. m266 Eli Lilly Co. EGb 761 Dr. Willmar Schwabe GmbH SPI 014 Satori Pharmaceuticals Inc. ALS 633 ALS 499 Advanced Life Sciences Inc. AGT 160 ArmaGen Technologies Inc. TAK 070 Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. CHF 5022 CHF 5074 CHF 5096 and CHF 5105 Chiesi Farmaceutici SpA. .

The invention will be more fully understood by reference to the following examples which detail exemplary embodiments of the invention. They should not however be construed as limiting the scope of the invention. All citations throughout the disclosure are hereby expressly incorporated by reference.

Reagents were purchased from Sigma Aldrich Alfa Aesar or TCI America and directly used without further purification. NMR experiments were carried out using 600 MHz Varian NMR apparatus. Mass spectrometry data were collected on Micromass LCT Time of Flight mass spectrometer with electrospray ionization. Mammalian Hsp70 proteins were expressed purified and handled as previously described 44.

MKT 077 analogs were synthesized as previously described see Examples below for detailed synthesis and characterization of various compounds .

A sample of Hsc70 50 L 0.06 mg mL was immobilized in clear flat bottom 96 well plate in MES buffer 50 mM 2 N morpholino ethanesulfonic acid pH 5.2 at 37 C. overnight. After discarding the excess protein solution each well was washed three times with 150 L TBS T buffer 25 mM Tris 140 mM NaCl 2.7 mM KCl 0.01 Tween 20 pH 7.4 . Then 1 L of compound 1 DMSO was diluted into 24 L of binding buffer 100 mM Tris 20 mM KCl 6 mM MgCl 0.01 Triton X100 and incubated at room temperature for 30 min Biotin labeled MKT 077 final concentration 1 M 25 L was subsequently added into each well and the mixture was incubated at room temperature for another 3 hrs. The wells were washed with 150 L TBS T buffer three times prior to blocking with 100 L 3 bovine serum albumin BSA in TBS T buffer for 5 min at room temperature. After the removal of the BSA solution 50 L of HRP streptavidin Pierce Biotechnology 1 50000 TBS T dilution solution was added and the plates were incubated at room temperature for 1 hr. The HRP streptavidin solution was removed and wells were washed three times with 150 L TBS T. TMS substrate Cell Signaling Technology 100 L was added into each well and incubated at room temperature until a visible blue color was shown in wells about 20 min 1 M HCl stop solution was then added into each well to yield a yellow solution and the absorbance at 450 nm was recorded on SpectraMax M5 Molecular Devices . In control experiments the biotinylated MKT 077 bound to human Hsp72 4.9 0.8 M and DnaK 16.7 3.1 M with similar affinities to human Hsc70 6.4 0.23 M reinforcing the similarity amongst the Hsp70 family members in the reported MKT 077 binding site.

Biotinylated human Hsc70NBD or full length Hsp72 were first immobilized on super streptavidin biosensors ForteBio 18 5057 as follows biosensors were soaked with MG buffer 100 mM Tris base 20 mM KCl 6 mM MgCl2 0.01 Triton X 100 pH 7.4 for 10 min before moving them to wells either containing 200 L 100 g mL biotinylated proteins or 100 g mL biocytin for 60 min. The free streptavidin sites were subsequently quenched with 100 g mL biocytin for 10 min. The biosensors were washed with MG buffer for 5 min prior to beginning the binding experiments. The association and disassociation steps were carried out in MG buffer with a constant 10 DMSO concentration. All steps were performed at room temperature and with 1000 rpm rotary shaking. Compounds were allowed to associate with the biosensor surface for 5 min and then to disassociate with the biosensor for 5 min Compounds were tested from low to high concentration in duplicates. Biocytin loaded biosensors were used to correct the baseline drifts. The apparent affinities of YM 08 for Hsc70and Hsp72 were calculated from both equilibrium measurements and global fits of the kand kvalues yielding similar values.

AUTODOCK 4.2 was used for the docking of YM 08 to Hsc70in complex with yeast Hsp110 PDB code 3C7N . This target was chosen because it is the only Hsp70 like protein structure available that is in complex with ADP and Mg. Prior to docking the Hsp110 sequence was removed and the remaining Hsc70 ADP and Mg were minimized using DOCK6 and Amber force field parameters as previously described 23. Then using a 0.2 resolution AUTODOCK grid box that was centered around the known MKT 077 binding site a Lamarkian genetic algorithm was performed with the following parameters GA runs 100 initial population size 1500 max number of evaluations long max number of surviving top individuals 1 gene mutation rate 0.02 rate of crossover 0.8 GA crossover mode two points Caushy distribution mean for gene mutation 0 Cauchy distribution variance for gene mutation 1 number of generations for picking worst individuals 10. The docked structures were clustered and then evaluated using PyMOL. All calculations were completed on a Apple MacBookPro computer equipped with a 64 bit 2.4 GHz Intel Core 2 Duo processor running MacOSX 10.6.8.

Single turnover ATPase assays were performed as previously described in e.g. Fewell et al. 279 51131 51140 2004 and Chiang et al. 17 1527 1533 2009 . Briefly the yeast Hsp70 Ssa1p about 0.2 M was prebound to 32P ATP. The hydrolysis of ATP in the presence or absence of an equimolar amount of Hlj1 was measured by monitoring the generation of a 32P ADP by thin layer chromatography TLC .

Binding of prokaryotic Hsp70 DnaK to denatured luciferase was measured as previously described in e.g. Miyata et al. 15 1211 1219 2010 . Briefly firefly luciferase 0.2 mg mL was proteolyzed with trypsin and immobilized in 96 well microtiter plates. After washing the binding of luciferase to DnaK 500 nM was measured using an anti DnaK antibody and HRP secondary antibody. A similar strategy was used to monitor binding of human Hsc70 to tau as previously described in Thompson et al. 7 1677 1686 2012 .

MCF7 cells were cultured in DMEM with 10 fetal bovine serum Invitrogen and 1 penicillin streptomycin Invitrogen . MCF10A cells were cultured in DMEM F 12 with 10 FBS 1 pen strep 5 horse serum Invitrogen 500 ng ml hydrocortisone Sigma and 25 ng ml epidermal growth factor R D Systems 10 g mL bovine insulin Sigma and 100 ng mL cholera toxin Sigma . HeLaC3 cells were cultured in OptiMem Invitrogen with 10 FBS and 1 pen strep. MDA MB 231 cells were cultured in DMEM with 10 FBS 1 pen strep and 1 non essential amino acids Invitrogen . All cells were maintained at 37 C. with 5 COin a humidified atmosphere. Brain slice cultures were created as previously described in Jinwal et al. 29 12079 12088 2009 and treated for 6 hours with YM 08 at the indicated concentration.

Cell viability was determined using a methyl thiazoyl tetrazolium MTT colorimetric assay ATCC catalog number 30 1010K with the following modifications. Briefly cells 5 103 were plated into 96 well assay plates in 0.1 ml media and allowed to attach overnight. The cells were then treated with compound at various concentrations in 0.2 mL fresh media. After the 72 hour incubation period cells were washed in PBS 3 100 L and 10 L MTT reagent was added with 100 L fresh media. The cells were then incubated for 4 hrs in a humidified chamber at 37 C. with 5 CO. Insoluble formazan crystals were solubilized by addition of 0.1 mL detergent solution 4 hrs at room temperature in the dark . Resulting colored solutions were then quantified at an absorbance of 570 nm.

Mouse liver microsomes 20 mg ml containing cytochrome P450 cytochrome b5 and NADPH cytochrome c reductase were purchased from XenoTech LLC Lenexa Kans. . NADPH MgCl and 0.1 M phosphate buffer were obtained from Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. . High performance liquid chromatography HPLC grade acetonitrile was purchased from Thermo Fisher Scientific Waltham Mass. . HPLC water was purified using a MilliQ water system Millipore Corporation Billerica Mass. .

To identify metabolites of YM 01 and YM 08 metabolized samples and two negative controls were prepared. In the metabolized samples 10 M YM 01 or YM 08 was incubated with mouse liver microsomes 1 mg mL in 0.1 M phosphate buffer containing 3.3 mM MgCland 1 mM NADPH at 37 C. for 2 hrs. In the first control 10 M YM 08 was incubated with 1 mg mL of boiled microsomes 100 C. for 5 min in the same buffer. In the second control neither YM 08 nor microsomes were added to the buffer. After 2 hrs incubation reactions were terminated by adding one volume of ice cold acetonitrile. The supernatants were collected after precipitating protein via centrifugation at 14 000 rpm for 10 min and then subjected to LC MS MS analysis. In the second control YM 01 or YM 08 5 M was added prior to LC MS MS analysis. In the analysis multiple reaction monitoring MRM mode was employed to identify the potential metabolites. Based on the precursor and fragment ions the MRM ion transition list of possible metabolites were generated by Metabolite ID software Applied Biosystems which accounts for 40 common biotransformation processes. Only the peaks that were detected in the sample but absent in both negative controls were determined to be the metabolites of YM 08. To characterize the metabolites of YM 08 the peaks were selected individually and subjected to MS2 scan to obtain fragments.

Female CD 1 mice 25 30 g in body weight were purchased from Charles River Laboratories Wilmington Mass. . Mice were treated with 6 mg kg YM 08 through the tail vein injection. The plasma and brain were collected at 0.016 0.08 0.16 0.25 0.5 1 2 4 6 13 18 24 and 48 h after drug administration. Whole blood samples were drawn through the cardiac puncture using a heparinized syringe with a 22 gauge needle followed by centrifugation at 3 000 g for 10 min at 4 C. to obtain plasma. Collected tissues were washed with PBS immediately frozen using liquid nitrogen and stored at 80 C. until further analysis. Tissue homogenates were prepared by adding PBS 1 5 w v homogenate PBS and homogenization for 3 min Compound was extracted from 100 L of sample by adding 300 L of acetonitrile containing 50 ng mL IS followed by vortexing for 3 min. The supernatant was collected and subjected to LC MS MS analysis.

The separation of YM 08 and internal standard was performed using Agilent 1200 HPLC system Agilent Technologies Santa Clara Calif. and Zobarx SB C18 column 2.1 50 mm 3.5 m Agilent Technologies . YM 08 was dissolved from solid in 30 water 5 Cremophor 5 ethanol and 60 phosphate buffered saline. The compounds were eluted with an fixed gradient of 20 solvent A and 80 of solvent B. Solvent A consisted of 0.1 v v glacial acetic acid in water and solvent B consisted of 0.1 v v glacial acetic acid in acetonitrile. After injecting 10 l of samples into HPLC system the elution was performed over 2 min at a flow rate of 0.4 ml min. The YM 08 and MKT 077 eluents were detected using QTRAP 3200 mass spectrometer Applied Biosystems MDS Sciex Foster City Calif. equipped with an electrospray ionization source ESI . The temperature of ESI was set at 650 C. and curtain gas gas 1 and gas 2 were set to 30 50 and 50 units respectively. A positive voltage at 5500 V was applied through ESI to convert the eluents to ions in the form of MH . The ions were detected using a MRM mode. The ion transitions from the precursor ion m z 368 to the fragment ion m z 222 and from the precursor ion m z 396 to the fragment ion m z 175 were used to detect YM 08 and IS respectively.

Compounds MKT 077 1 ethyl 2 Z E 3 ethyl 5 3 methylbenzo d thiazol 2 3H ylidene 4 oxothiazolidin 2 ylidene methyl pyridin 1 ium YM 02 E 3 ethyl 5 3 methylbenzo d thiazol 2 3H ylidene 2 thioxothiazolidin 4 one YM 03 E 3 ethyl 5 3 methylbenzo d thiazol 2 3H ylidene 2 methylthio 4 oxo 4 5 dihydrothiazol 3 ium YM 04 Z 2 3 ethyl 4 oxothiazolidin 2 ylidene methyl 1 methylpyridin 1 ium and YM 07 Z 3 ethyl 2 pyridin 2 ylmethylene thiazolidin 4 one were synthesized as previously reported in Nishigaki et al. JP 2004359801. Characterization by H NMR and mass spectrometry confirmed the reported values.

2 Z E 3 ethyl 5 3 methylbenzo d thiazol 2 3H ylidene 4 oxothiazolidin 2 ylidene methyl 1 methylpyridin 1 ium YM 01 . H d DMSO 8.67 1H d J 6.3 Hz 8.26 1H t J 8.2 Hz 8.04 1H d J 8.6 Hz 7.87 1H d J 7.8 Hz 7.61 1H d J 8.2 Hz 7.49 1H t J 7.4 Hz 7.42 1H t J 7.4 Hz 7.30 1H t J 7.4 Hz 5.96 1H t 4.14 3H s 4.10 2H q J 7.4 6.7 Hz 4.04 3H s 1.26 3H t J 6.7 Hz . C d DMSO 163.80 154.42 150.60 150.51 145.33 142.67 140.33 127.01 125.61 123.53 122.80 122.06 118.69 111.72 84.19 78.26 45.18 38.23 34.48 11.87. MS ESI calculated for CHNOS M Cl m z 382.1. found 382.1. Purity 95 determined by H NMR .

 2Z 5E 3 ethyl 5 3 methylbenzo d thiazol 2 3H ylidene 2 pyridin 2 ylmethylene thiazolidin 4 one YM 08 . H NMR 600 MHz DMSO d 8.53 1H d J 4.2 Hz 7.65 1H d J 7.8 Hz 7.61 1H t J 7.8 Hz 7.35 1H t J 7.8 Hz 7.31 1H d J 7.8 Hz 7.22 1H d J 7.8 Hz 7.14 1H t J 7.8 Hz 6.93 1H t J 6.0 Hz 6.16 1H s 3.94 3H s 3.89 2H q J 7.2 Hz 1.20 3H t 7.2 Hz C NMR 150 MHz DMSO d 165.08 155.92 149.81 147.41 140.90 140.18 135.78 126.40 125.87 122.38 121.94 121.44 117.32 110.41 93.44 84.10 37.14 34.24 12.09. ESI MS m z calculated for CHNOS 368.09. found 368.1 M H . Purity 95 determined by H NMR .

MCF7 cells were cultured in DMEM with 10 fetal bovine serum Invitrogen and 1 penicillin streptomycin Invitrogen . The cells were then treated with the Hsp70 inhibitor JG 83 or JG 84 alone or in combination with the Hsp90 inhibitor 1 nM rapamycin or 1 nM 17 AAG. The inhibitory growth information is shown in indicating that the combination of a Hsp70 and Hsp90 inhibitor resulted in decreased IC50 concentrations compared to the Hsp70 inhibitor alone.

To further test if an Hsp70 inhibitor would have synergistic activity with inhibitors of Hsp90 and the proteasome MDA MB 231 cells were treated for 24 hrs with combinations of an HSP70 inhibitor and an HSP90 inhibitor and measured cell viability by MTT assays. JG 98 had cytotoxic activity that is synergistic with 17 DMAG and bortezomib. Specifically the combination index CI scores at JG98 17DMAG 10 1 were CI50 1.09 CI75 0.35 CI90 0.27 CI95 0.2. For the JG98 bortezomib combination 1 1 we observed CI50 0.05 CI75 0.05 CI90

