---

title: Industrial-enabled mobile device
abstract: An industrial-enabled mobile electronic device, such as a personal mobile phone or tablet computer, allows a user to wirelessly interact with industrial devices for a variety of purposes. The mobile electronic device can communicate with an industrial device to read and write configuration settings, read and view log data, send commands to the industrial device, and other such functions. The mobile electronic device can perform various types of analysis on images and video of the industrial device captured by the mobile electronic device, including identifying and translating a model or device number printed on the device, or translating error codes displayed by the industrial device. The mobile electronic device can also retrieve additional information about the industrial device or the device's stored data via interaction with a remote technical support service, and can be used to facilitate dialog with a remote technical support person.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09489832&OS=09489832&RS=09489832
owner: ROCKWELL AUTOMATION TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
number: 09489832
owner_city: Mayfield Heights
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140404
---
The subject application relates generally to industrial automation and more particularly to an industrial enabled mobile personal device that can facilitate wireless interaction between a user and an industrial device.

Industrial controllers and their associated I O devices are central to the operation of modem automation systems. These controllers interact with field devices on the plant floor to control automated processes relating to such objectives as product manufacture material handling batch processing supervisory control and other such applications. Industrial controllers store and execute user defined control programs to effect decision making in connection with the controlled process. Such programs can include but are not limited to ladder logic sequential function charts function block diagrams structured text or other such programming structures. In general industrial controllers read input data from sensors and metering devices that provide discreet and telemetric data regarding one or more states of the controlled system and generate control outputs based on these inputs in accordance with the user defined program.

In addition to industrial controllers and their associated I O devices some industrial automation systems may also include low level control systems such as vision systems barcode marking systems variable frequency drives industrial robots and the like which perform local control of portions of the industrial process or which have their own localized control systems.

Human interaction with these disparate industrial devices including but not limited to installation and configuration of the devices identification of the devices visual indicators device calibration diagnostics retrieval and translation of log data stored on the devices and other such interactions often requires the user to be sufficiently near the device to allow the user to visually inspect the device manually adjust a configuration parameter or mode setting e.g. by actuating a button or dial on the device or to plug a physical cable to the device to facilitate communication between the device and a portable computer e.g. a laptop computer . This requirement restricts the possible installation locations for such devices since the choice of installation location must allow for these types of maintenance access.

Moreover installation maintenance and diagnostics of these industrial devices often require plant maintenance or engineering personnel to refer to the devices documentation e.g. user manuals installation guides etc. or to contact remote technical support entities in order to identify the device interpret error codes translate logged data stored on the device or other such device interactions. However device documentation may not be readily available to plant personnel when needed particularly if the user is investigating a maintenance issue on the plant floor. In such scenarios the user may be located at the site of the problem e.g. physically proximate to the device but the documentation for the device may be located elsewhere in the plant e.g. in the engineering office or may be missing altogether.

If the user wishes to contact remote technical support personnel to assist in diagnosing a performance issue with an industrial device the user must first locate the contact information for the remote support office. Once in contact with remote support personnel the user must then provide information about the device and the problem to be solved which may include identifying the device interpreting visual indicators rendered by the device describing the device s recent operation etc. However these interactions between the end user and the technical support staff may require a degree of knowledge about the device that the end user does not possess.

The above described deficiencies of today s industrial control and business systems are merely intended to provide an overview of some of the problems of conventional systems and are not intended to be exhaustive. Other problems with conventional systems and corresponding benefits of the various non limiting embodiments described herein may become further apparent upon review of the following description.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects described herein. This summary is not an extensive overview nor is intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of the various aspects described herein. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

One or more embodiments of the present disclosure relate to the use of mobile personal electronic devices e.g. smart phones tablet computers and the like in connection with documenting installing calibrating and diagnosing industrial automation devices. To this end one or more industry specific applications can be installed on a mobile electronic personal device thereby enabling the mobile device to interact with one or more industrial devices e.g. industrial controllers sensors opto electronic devices safety relays or other safety automation components etc. to carry out a variety of industrial functions. The industry specific applications can leverage one or more peripherals of the mobile device including but not limited to the mobile device s camera microphone wireless interface biometrics reader display screen position detection systems e.g. global positioning systems etc. to capture or retrieve information about an industrial device or information stored thereon and to process this information assist the user in connection with identifying the industrial device discovering information about the industrial device sending instructions to the industrial device via the mobile device configuring the industrial device or other such functions.

According to various embodiments a mobile device running an industry specific application can capture a photograph or video of an industrial device and translate error codes or LED blinking sequences rendered by the industrial device based on the photograph or video identify the industrial device based on the photograph or video and or retrieve relevant device documentation from a remote knowledgebase based on the photograph or video.

In some embodiments the industry enabled mobile device may also be used to write data or send command signals to the industrial device via the mobile device s wireless interface e.g. Bluetooth near field communication NFC or other such wireless interface . In such embodiments the industry enabled mobile device can enforce role based read write privileges for selected industrial devices using the mobile device s user recognition functionality including but not limited to biometric or password based verification. This ensures that only verified authorized personnel e.g. maintenance or engineering personnel are permitted to read and write information to the industrial device via the mobile device.

Some embodiments of the industrial enabled mobile device can also simplify and automate interactions between plant personnel and remote technical support services. This can include for example automated retrieval of relevant technical support documentation from a web based or cloud based knowledgebase based on information about the industrial device collected by the mobile device or routing the captured device information to a web based or cloud based diagnostic service capable of analyzing the device data and delivering configuration or diagnostic recommendations to the mobile device. In some embodiments the mobile device can present these diagnostic features to the user in the form of a troubleshooting wizard that guides the user through a series of checks and or operations to yield a solution to a device performance issue. In another example the industry enabled mobile device can collect relevant information about the industrial device e.g. via the mobile device s camera and or wireless interface and route the collected data to suitable remote technical support personnel capable of assisting the end user with installation or troubleshooting of the industrial device. The industry enabled mobile device can subsequently facilitate dialog between the end user and the technical support personnel.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative of various ways which can be practiced all of which are intended to be covered herein. Other advantages and novel features may become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The subject disclosure is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding thereof. It may be evident however that the subject disclosure can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate a description thereof.

As used in this application the terms component system platform layer controller terminal station node interface are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to or that is part of an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein such entities can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor a hard disk drive multiple storage drives of optical or magnetic storage medium including affixed e.g. screwed or bolted or removably affixed solid state storage drives an object an executable a thread of execution a computer executable program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also components as described herein can execute from various computer readable storage media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or a firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that provides at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components. While the foregoing examples are directed to aspects of a component the exemplified aspects or features also apply to a system platform interface layer controller terminal and the like.

As used herein the terms to infer and inference refer generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Furthermore the term set as employed herein excludes the empty set e.g. the set with no elements therein. Thus a set in the subject disclosure includes one or more elements or entities. As an illustration a set of controllers includes one or more controllers a set of data resources includes one or more data resources etc. Likewise the term group as utilized herein refers to a collection of one or more entities e.g. a group of nodes refers to one or more nodes.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches also can be used.

Industrial enabled mobile device comprises a processor e.g. a microprocessor such as a multi core processor whose operation is controlled in part by information stored in the device s memory. This information can include operating system software application software e.g. one or more industry specific applications installed on the device configuration data or other such information.

Industrial system comprises a number of industrial devices that operate together to control an industrial process or automate one or more industrial machines. Example industrial systems can include but are not limited to batch control systems e.g. mixing systems continuous control systems e.g. PID control systems or discrete control systems. The industrial devices that make up industrial system can include such devices as industrial controllers e.g. programmable logic controllers or other types of programmable automation controllers field devices such as sensors and meters motor drives human machine interfaces HMIs industrial robots barcode markers and readers vision system devices e.g. vision cameras smart welders or other such industrial devices.

Example industrial systems can include one or more industrial controllers that facilitate monitoring and control of their respective processes. The controllers exchange data with the field devices using native hardwired I O or via a plant network such as Ethernet EtherNet IP Data Highway Plus ControlNet DeviceNet or the like. A given controller typically receives any combination of digital or analog signals from the field devices indicating a current state of the devices and their associated processes e.g. temperature position part presence or absence fluid level etc. and executes a user defined control program that performs automated decision making for the controlled processes based on the received signals. The controller then outputs appropriate digital and or analog control signaling to the field devices in accordance with the decisions made by the control program. These outputs can include device actuation signals temperature or position control signals operational commands to a machining or material handling robot mixer control signals motion control signals and the like. The control program can comprise any suitable type of code used to process input signals read into the controller and to control output signals generated by the controller including but not limited to ladder logic sequential function charts function block diagrams structured text or other such platforms.

The industrial devices comprising industrial system may reside in fixed location industrial facilities or may be part of a mobile control and or monitoring application such as a system contained in a truck or other service vehicle.

Industrial enabled mobile device can be configured to collect and process data in a variety of formats from one or more industrial devices comprising industrial system and to provide useful outputs to the owner of the mobile device relating to the identification function status and health of the industrial devices. Mobile device can also be configured to write configuration data calibration data or commands to the industrial devices in accordance with input instructions from the user subject to biometrically enforced user authentication.

In some embodiments industrial enabled mobile device can process the collected industrial device data locally in accordance with application instructions installed on the mobile device. In addition or alternatively industrial enabled mobile device can interact with web based or cloud based remote services to facilitate remote processing of the industrial device data. In such embodiments industry enabled mobile device serves as an interface point between the industrial system the user and the remote services residing on cloud platform . In this regard some embodiments of industrial enabled mobile device can be configured to discover and interact with the remote services hosted by cloud platform . Cloud platform can be any infrastructure that allows remote services to be accessed and utilized by cloud capable devices. Cloud platform can be a public cloud accessible via the Internet by devices having Internet connectivity and appropriate authorizations to utilize the remote services . In some scenarios cloud platform can be provided by a cloud provider as a platform as a service PaaS and the remote services can reside and execute on the cloud platform as a cloud based service. In some such configurations access to the cloud platform and associated remote services can be provided to customers as a subscription service by an owner of the remote services . Alternatively cloud platform can be a private cloud operated internally by an industrial enterprise that owns industrial system . An example private cloud platform can comprise a set of servers hosting the remote services and residing on a corporate network protected by a firewall.

Services can include but are not limited to remote diagnostics error code analysis technical documentation storage remote technical support device or system behavior tracking device configuration management or other such services. These services will be described in more detail herein. Although depicts these services as remote services hosted on a cloud platform one or more of the services described herein can be performed locally on industry enabled mobile device in some embodiments.

In one or more embodiments an industrial mobile application can be provided that when installed on a user s mobile personal device e.g. mobile phone tablet smart glasses or other type of wearable computer etc. enables the mobile device to interact with one or more industrial devices and process data captured from the industrial devices by the mobile device and or to render output to the user based on data captured from the industrial devices. In other embodiments industrial enabled mobile device can be provided as a pre configured mobile device capable of performing these functions.

Industrial enabled mobile device can include one or more of a camera video component a user interface component a biometrics component a wireless interface component an industrial application component one or more processors and memory . In various embodiments one or more of the camera video component user interface component biometrics component wireless interface component industrial application component the one or more processors and memory can be electrically and or communicatively coupled to one another to perform one or more of the functions of the industrial enabled mobile device . In some embodiments components and can comprise software instructions stored on memory and executed by processor s . Industrial enabled mobile device may also interact with other hardware and or software components not depicted in . For example processor s may interact with one or more external user interface devices such as a keyboard a mouse a display monitor a touchscreen or other such interface devices.

Camera video component can be configured to capture photographic image or video data via a camera lens built into the mobile device . Camera video component can also include a microphone to capture sound data concurrently with the video data. Camera video component can convert analog signals received via the mobile device s camera and or microphone into digital data suitable for processing by the system.

User interface component can be configured to receive user input and to render output to the user in any suitable format e.g. visual audio tactile etc. . Biometrics component can be configured to read biometric data from an owner of mobile device e.g. a fingerprint or retina scan a facial image etc. and cross reference the biometric data with a user identity. Some features of industrial enabled mobile device may only be permitted upon confirming that biometric data provided by the possessor of the mobile device is associated with a user identity having suitable authorization to execute the requested feature. Wireless interface component can be configured to connect the industrial enabled mobile device to a wireless network or to establish wireless communication e.g. near field communication WiFi Bluetooth etc. with another device having wireless communication capability.

Industrial application component can be configured to execute on the industrial enabled mobile device to facilitate wireless interaction with one or more industrial devices e.g. industrial controllers sensors telemetry devices safety relays etc. and leverage the mobile device s memory and processing capabilities to process data captured or collected from the industrial devices. Industrial application component can be for example a specialized software application that can be installed on a user s personal mobile electronic device thereby enabling the mobile electronic device to carry out the industrial functions to be described in more detail herein. A variety of industrial application components can be provided each designed to carry out one or more of the industrial functions described herein.

The one or more processors can perform one or more of the functions described herein with reference to the systems and or methods disclosed. Memory can be a computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions and or information for performing the functions described herein with reference to the systems and or methods disclosed.

In this example industrial enabled mobile device can be used to take a photograph or video of the catalog number on industrial device . The mobile device can then locate the catalog number within the photograph or image data translate the catalog number to determine the identity of the industrial device and retrieve relevant information about the industrial device for display via the mobile device s display screen.

Accordingly the mobile device s camera video component can capture an image or video of the portion of the industrial device on which the catalog number is located typically the front face of the industrial device although the catalog number may be located elsewhere on the device . Industrial application component is configured to recognize the portion of the image or video data containing the catalog number and to extract the catalog number from the image or video. In the case of a human readable or alphanumeric catalog number industrial application component may perform optical character recognition on the image in order to identify the catalog number. For QR codes or other machine translatable codes industrial application component can perform a suitable translation on the code in order to obtain the identity of the industrial device .

Once the catalog number has been identified industrial application component can submit the translated catalog number to a product data store that maintains product information for multiple industrial devices organized according to catalog number. In some embodiments this product data store can be maintained by the industrial application component on the mobile device s local memory e.g. memory of . Accordingly once the catalog number has been identified industrial application component can access this local data store and retrieve the relevant information about the identified industrial device . This information can include for example a name of the industrial device a function of the industrial device product documentation e.g. installation guide user s guides troubleshooting guides links to websites containing additional information about the identified industrial device etc. contact information for technical support entities who may be qualified to provide support for the identified industrial device or other such information. The product information may also include an indication of whether other software applications e.g. other downloadable mobile device applications specific to the identified industrial device are available for download. In another example the product information may comprise recommended configuration settings for the industrial device which can then be downloaded to the industrial device using mobile device according to techniques described in more detail below.

Once the product information has been retrieved industrial application component can then leverage the user interface component to render the retrieved product information on a display screen of the mobile device. For embodiments in which the product data store is maintained locally on the industrial enabled mobile device the industrial application component may update the product data store based on updated product information received from a remote source e.g. a vendor associated with the industrial device via wireless interface component .

In another embodiment the product data store may be maintained remotely e.g. on a remote cloud platform or other remote location. In such embodiments after industrial application component has read and translated catalog number from the industrial device locally at the mobile device the industrial application component can then submit the catalog number to the remote product data store residing on cloud platform via wireless interface component . Data retrieval services executing on cloud platform can then retrieve the relevant product information corresponding to the catalog number from product data store and return the product information to the mobile device . Industrial application component can then render the retrieved product information on the mobile device s display screen. In such embodiments wherein the mobile device interfaces with a cloud platform to retrieve relevant product information the industrial application component can be preconfigured with information required to discover and interact with the appropriate services on cloud platform e.g. a uniform resource locator URL identifying the cloud platform identification of the necessary cloud based services to which the extracted catalog number should be sent etc. .

In some embodiments industrial application component and product data store can be configured to identify a possible replacement device that can be used in place of the identified industrial device . This can include identification of similar or equivalent devices available from the same vendor or supplier of industrial device or identification of a similar or equivalent device available from a different vendor. According to such embodiments product data store may cross reference similar or equivalent devices across different vendors and identify one or more suitable replacement devices for industrial device based on this cross referenced information. In an example application of this feature a given plant facility may comprise multiple industrial automation systems each comprising multiple industrial devices e.g. controllers sensors drives etc. provided by a variety of different product vendors. Plant personnel wishing to standardize their plant floor devices under a single preferred product vendor can use industrial enabled mobile device to identify equivalent replacement devices offered by the preferred vendor for each of their existing devices. These equivalent devices can be identified by taking a photograph of the existing industrial device using the mobile device s integrated camera and instructing the industrial application component to identify suitable vendor specific replacement devices and association product information from product data store . The industrial application component can render a list of equivalent devices on the mobile device s display screen via user interface component . In some embodiments industrial application component can also display ordering information to simplify or automate the process of ordering the identified replacement devices e.g. web links click to order graphical buttons contact information for local suppliers who carry the replacement device etc. .

In some embodiments the industrial enabled mobile device can be configured to identify the industrial device based on other distinctive physical attributes of the industrial device which can be identified by analyzing the image or video data of the device. In this regard industrial application component may be configured to recognize certain distinctive physical features that characterize respective models of industrial devices. Accordingly the industrial application component can analyze the image or video of the industrial device isolate and identify these distinctive physical attributes and identify the industrial device based on stored information that cross references a variety of physical features with their corresponding industrial devices. Industrial application component can then retrieve corresponding product documentation or identify suitable replacement devices as described in previous examples.

In this example industrial enabled mobile device can be used to take a photograph or video of the displayed error code or blinking sequence and the mobile device can identify the error associated with the error code or blinking sequence based on the image or video. The mobile device can then display information about the error including possible corrective measures that can be taken to correct or clear the error condition.

Accordingly the mobile device s camera video component can capture the image or video of the portion of the industrial device on which the error display is located typically the front face of the industrial device although error display may be located elsewhere on the device . In this example industrial application component is configured to recognize the portion of the image or video data containing the error code or blinking sequence and extract the error code or blinking sequence information from the image or video. In the case of a seven segment error code or other type of alphanumeric code industrial application component may perform optical character recognition on the error code image in order to identify the error code. For the blinking sequence industrial application component can perform analysis on the video recording of the blinking LED to identify the distinctive blinking sequence captured in the video.

Once the error code or blinking sequence has been identified industrial application component can cross reference the error code or blinking sequence with the corresponding error and retrieve information about the error based on the error code and the particular model of the industrial device . Since the error corresponding to the error code or blinking sequence will often depend on the model number or type of the industrial device industrial application component can be configured to identify the error based on the identified error code or blinking sequence as well as the model number or other identifier for the industrial device being examined. In some scenarios the model number or identifier for the industrial device can also be determined based on analysis of the image or video data as described above in connection with . Alternatively the model number or identity of industrial device can be entered manually by the user via user interface component . For example industrial application component may render a graphical display on the mobile device s display screen prompting the user to enter the model number or identity of industrial device . In some embodiments industrial application component may maintain a database of supported industrial devices on the mobile device s local memory and allow the user to select the industrial device from a list of these supported devices rendered on the display screen. The industrial application component may update this database of supported industrial devices based on an updated list of supported devices received from a remote source e.g. a vendor associated with the industrial device via wireless interface component .

In some embodiments industrial enabled mobile device can maintain local error code information for multiple different error codes across multiple different industrial devices. For example this error code information may be stored on the mobile device s local memory e.g. memory upon installation of industrial application component . Accordingly industrial application component can access this locally stored error code data and select the appropriate subset of error information corresponding to the identified error code and the industrial device identifier. This error information can then be rendered on the mobile device s display screen via the user interface component . Error information can comprise for example an explanation of the error or fault corresponding to the error code instructions on how to clear the error or fault possible causes of the fault one or more countermeasures for mitigating future occurrences of the error or fault or other relevant information.

In other embodiments the error code information can be stored remotely e.g. in a technical support data store maintained on cloud platform . As with the product data store described above in connection with the industrial enabled mobile device can access remote technical support data store via an Internet connection using wireless interface component . Industrial application component can extract and translate the error code rendered by error display as described above and submit the error code and industrial device identifier to the technical support data store via wireless interface component . Search and retrieval services executing on cloud platform can retrieve the error information corresponding to the error code and device identifier and deliver the error information to the mobile device for display on the device s display screen.

In addition to reading and translating images and video of industrial devices as described above some embodiments of the industrial enabled mobile device can write data or commands to certain types of industrial devices as well as read stored configuration status or log data from the industrial devices. illustrates data read and write functions carried out between an industrial enabled mobile device and an industrial device . In this example industrial device is depicted as an industrial controller e.g. a programmable logic controller . However embodiments of industrial enabled mobile device described herein can exchange data with other types of industrial devices including but not limited to telemetry devices sensors safety relays motor drives vision systems industrial cameras and the like.

In some embodiments industrial enabled mobile device can establish communication with industrial device over a wireless connection e.g. Bluetooth near field communication NFC WiFi etc. in response to an instruction from the owner of the mobile device . In such scenarios industrial device may include its own wireless interface to facilitate communication and data exchange with other devices. In order to ensure that only authorize personnel are permitted to wirelessly connect to the industrial device industrial application component executing on mobile device may leverage the mobile device s integrated biometric functions e.g. biometrics component of or other integrated user authentication features of the mobile device to ensure that the owner of the mobile device is suitably authorized to send commands to and or read data from industrial device . For example the industrial application component executing on industrial enabled mobile device may be configured to enable read write privileges with industrial device only after the user has passed a biometric confirmation e.g. a fingerprint scan a retina scan a facial recognition check etc. where the user s biometric data is received via the mobile device s biometrics component . Once the user s biometric information has been confirmed the industrial application component can initiate wireless communication with the industrial device . Alternatively the user s identity may be confirmed via password authentication.

In another example the degree of access to industrial device may depend on a role associated with the owner of mobile device . Accordingly either the mobile device or the industrial device may store the identities of all authorized personnel having some degree of permitted access to industrial device as well as each authorized person s role e.g. operator maintenance engineer finance etc. or explicit degree of allowed access. When the owner of mobile device attempts to initiate communication between mobile device and industrial device the mobile device prompts the user for biometric information. If the personnel data is maintained locally on mobile device the industrial application component executing on the mobile device can identify the user based on the provided biometric information determine the user s role and associated degree of access and enable only those read write features granted to the user s role. For example some users may only be permitted to read log data stored on industrial device while others may additionally be permitted to write or make changes to the industrial device s stored configuration settings via mobile device .

The degree of access to a particular industrial device may depend on the type of industrial device for which access is requested. For example the read write privileges for safety devices e.g. safety relays may be limited such that only users defined as having an engineering role are permitted to make changes to the safety device s configuration settings via mobile device whereas non safety devices may be defined to allow write privileges to both engineering and maintenance users. In another example a broader range of users may be permitted to access sensors or telemetry devices relative to users allowed to access industrial controllers via mobile device . Since the user s degree of permitted access may be device specific the industrial application component executing on mobile device may first identify the industrial device e.g. by polling the industrial device for device identification information over the wireless connection then determine the user s read write privileges to that particular industrial device based on the stored permission data.

In other scenarios the user privilege information may be stored on the industrial device itself. In such scenarios the industrial enabled mobile device may receive a command from the owner of the mobile device to read information from or write data to industrial device e.g. via a graphical display generated by the industrial application component . The mobile device can send this request to the industrial device over the wireless connection together with the user s identification information authenticated by the mobile device using biometric confirmation . Upon receipt of this data the industrial device can access the stored permission data to determine whether sufficient read write privileges have been associated with the user identification to permit the requested action. If the industrial device determines that the identified user is not permitted to perform the requested action the industrial device may return a denial indication to the mobile device causing the industrial application component to render an appropriate message on the mobile device s display screen indicating that the action cannot be completed.

Contingent on the read write permission described above industrial enabled mobile device can be used to write configuration and command data to the industrial device. This can include for example modifying one or more configuration parameters on the industrial device through interaction with a specialized graphical interface generated by the industrial application component and rendered on the mobile device s display screen. In some scenarios configuration parameters can be modified manually by selecting a desired parameter on the mobile device s display screen and entering a new value for the parameter which is then downloaded to the industrial device by the mobile device . Alternatively mobile device may download a set of recommended configuration settings for the industrial device from a remote source e.g. a remote web based or cloud based product knowledgebase containing recommended parameter settings for various industrial devices where such recommended parameter settings may be a function of the type of industrial application in which the industrial device is being used . The mobile device can then write the downloaded configuration settings to the industrial device .

In another example the industrial enabled mobile device can be used to remotely place the industrial device in a desired operating mode without the need to physically touch the device. For example a user may place an opto sensor in a Teach mode by wirelessly connecting to the sensor using the mobile device and switching the mode through interaction with a suitable graphical interface generated by the industrial application component and rendered on the mobile device s display screen. Mobile device can also be used to remotely clear a fault condition on the industrial device by writing a Clear Fault command to the industrial device via the mobile device s wireless interface component in response to user interaction with a graphical interface generated by the industrial application component and rendered on the mobile device s display screen .

Since the user s identity is verified prior to allowing new configuration data to be written to industrial device either biometrically or by virtue of a user identity associated with a password protected mobile device the industrial enabled mobile device can facilitate tracking of all configuration modifications made to industrial device . For example each time a configuration change is made to industrial device by an industrial enabled mobile device the mobile device can send a record of the modification as well as the biometrically authenticated identity of the owner of the mobile device to a higher level tracking system residing in the plant or to a remote tracking application executing on cloud platform . Such tracking systems can use this data to create a log of configuration modifications made to industrial device including the nature of the modifications e.g. which configuration parameters were modified the valves of the parameter settings before and after the change etc. a time of the modification and an identity of the user who performed the change.

Contingent on the user s read privileges industrial enabled mobile device can also be used to view and or retrieve device data stored on the industrial device . In some scenarios the device data may comprise configuration parameters for the industrial device . For example if the industrial device is a variable frequency drive VFD industrial enabled mobile device may be configured to establish wireless communication e.g. NFC Bluetooth etc. with the VFD and poll the VFD for its current configuration settings e.g. acceleration and deceleration times deceleration time frequency bias torque limit etc. . Since the range of configuration parameters available to be viewed depends on the particular industrial device being examined the industrial application component executing on the mobile device may initially identify the type or model of industrial device e.g. by polling the industrial device for identification information or using the photographic analysis discussed above in connection with . Based on the determined identity of the device industrial application component can then generate a suitable graphical display for viewing the configuration parameters and settings known to be available on that particular industrial device. Depending on the user s biometrically confirmed or password confirmed read write privileges for the identified industrial device the industrial application component can also allow selected configuration parameters to be modified via the mobile device through interaction with the graphical interface allowing suitably authorized personnel to write new configuration settings to industrial device without the need to touch the device or to physically connect a separate laptop computer to the industrial device. Thus industrial enabled mobile device allows greater freedom with regard to selection of a suitable installation location for industrial devices since industrial devices that require configuration modifications after installation need not be limited to locations that allow for physical maintenance access to the device. Instead the industrial devices can be installed at any location within wireless range of the mobile device s wireless interface e.g. within NFC or Bluetooth range .

In addition to determining the type or model of industrial device some embodiments of the industrial enabled mobile device may be further configured to determine whether the industrial device is a safety device or a non safety device before allowing the user to modify the industrial device s configuration settings. The mobile device may then set the sequence of operations for changing the industrial device s configuration parameters based on this determination. For example it may be desirable to enforce additional safety confirmation steps when writing new configuration settings to a safety device e.g. a safety relay versus writing new configuration data to a non safety device e.g. a vision system a non safety sensor etc. . Accordingly in response to determining that industrial device is a safety device e.g. using techniques described above in connection with the industrial application component may perform additional verification checks with industrial device before sending the new configuration parameters to the industrial device. These steps may include for example requesting confirmation from the safety device that a controlled process or machine is in a safe state requesting confirmation from the industrial device that the configuration changes requested by the user will not result in unsafe machine behavior or other such verifications.

In some embodiments industrial enabled mobile device can also facilitate documentation of an industrial device s configuration settings. For example in addition to retrieving and displaying the industrial device s current configuration settings the mobile device may also save a copy of these configuration settings either by storing the settings on the mobile device s local memory or by wirelessly transmitting the settings to remote storage e.g. cloud based storage maintained on cloud platform . In this way plant personnel can easily retrieve and document the configuration settings for various devices making up an industrial system. Additionally in some embodiments after retrieving and storing configuration settings of a first industrial device the industrial enabled mobile device can be used to write these stored configuration settings to a similar second industrial device. For example if a plant engineer is commissioning a new VFD that requires an identical configuration setting as another VFD already in use on the plant floor the plant engineer can use industrial enabled mobile device to read and store the configuration settings for the existing VFD as described above wirelessly connect to the new VFD and write the previously retrieved configuration settings to the new VFD.

The techniques described above can also be leveraged in some embodiments to perform pre diagnosis on industrial devices. For example some industrial devices may store and maintain local maintenance information which can be read and translated by the industrial enabled mobile device . The locally stored maintenance information may comprise for example device or component life cycle information that may determine when a device or one of its internal components should be replaced or maintained. In a non limiting example an electromechanical device may include a number of internal switches having a limited lifetime that is at least partially a function of the number of work cycles. Such devices may include a data register that tracks the number of work cycles performed by the device. In such examples when a user brings the mobile device near the electromechanical device the mobile device may wirelessly connect to the electromechanical device read the work cycle data from the register and determine whether the number of work cycles exceeds or is approaching a recommended maximum number of work cycles for that particular device. If the number of work cycles is determined to approach or exceed this maximum the mobile device can generate an alert indicating that the device or the bank of switches installed within the device should be replaced. In another example an optical device e.g. an industrial camera a vision system etc. may be designed to detect dirt or other foreign bodies on its lens which may lower the device s optical reserve or accuracy. The optical device may flag an internal register when such problems are detected. In a similar fashion to the previous example the mobile device can read this register and generate an alert indicating to the user that maintenance should be performed on the optical device. As in previous examples the mobile device may perform these types of diagnoses based on a determined identity of the device being read and by referencing local or remote information about the identified device e.g. information identifying the device s diagnostic registers information describing how the values within these registers should be interpreted information describing appropriate alarm messages that should be generated based on the diagnostic register values etc. .

The manner in which the industrial enabled mobile device interacts with a given industrial device may be based not only on the device identity e.g. the model of the device the device vendor etc. but may also be a function of the device s status or the particular type of industrial application in which the industrial device is being used. For example light curtains used in connection with stamping press machines must be located a safe distance from the dangerous moving components of the press. Accordingly based on the knowledge that the light curtain is being used in a press application e.g. based on manual entry of the type of industrial system being examined based on information read from the device etc. the mobile device may configure its graphical interface or alert messages to emphasize this safety aspect. This may include for example prompting the user to verify the safe distance tracking the user s position using the mobile device s internal global positioning system and generating automated alerts in response determining that the user is approaching an unsafe distance from the device given the current operating state etc. In another example if the mobile device determines that the light curtain has been configured for muting functionality the mobile device can configure the graphical interface or alert messages to assist the user in correctly positioning the muting sensors to be used for muting the light curtain e.g. generating informational messages recommending installation locations for such muting sensors relative to the light curtain or other system components etc. .

In some scenarios device data may also comprise log data stored on industrial device . illustrates retrieval of log data from an industrial device using an industrial enabled mobile device. As in previously described examples an industrial application component leverages the mobile device s wireless interface component to establish communication with industrial device . In this example industrial device is designed to collect and or generate log data in connection with the industrial device s operation and to store this log data on local data storage . The logged data can comprise for example time stamped status or operational data generated by the industrial device e.g. measured temperature or speed trend data over time an alarm or fault history for the industrial device etc. or historical data collected by the industrial device from other connected sensors or telemetry devices.

After successfully connecting to industrial device industrial application component can cause the mobile device to retrieve the log data from the industrial device s local data storage . As in previous examples industrial application component may require biometric authentication from an owner of the mobile device before permitting retrieval of the log data . Also similar to previous examples mobile device may initially poll industrial device over the wireless connection to determine a type or identity e.g. a model number of the industrial device. Based on the determined type or identity of industrial device industrial application component can determine the available types of logged data available on the industrial device e.g. by accessing a local or remote knowledgebase that identifies the data available for each of multiple different types of industrial devices . Alternatively the mobile device may discover the types of data available on industrial device based on an examination of data storage e.g. during a handshaking sequence between industrial device and mobile device .

Mobile device can retrieve the log data from industrial device and store the retrieved data on the mobile device s local storage. The retrieved data can then be accessed and viewed via interaction with the mobile device s display screen. In some embodiments industrial application component can also perform analysis and or diagnostics on the retrieved log data . Such analysis can be performed locally on mobile device using local analysis tools supported by industrial application component . Alternatively in some embodiments industrial enabled mobile device can send the log data to cloud platform for analysis by a remote web based or cloud based analysis service. In the example illustrated in the cloud based analysis service comprises a customer data store for storing log data received via the mobile device or pushed to the cloud platform by other means and an analysis component that executes as a service on cloud platform . Analysis component can perform analysis on the collected log data stored in customer data store and return analysis results to mobile device for display on the mobile device s display screen.

Various embodiments of analysis component can provide a range of analyses on industrial device data retrieved by mobile device . For example the cloud based analysis system can analyze logged trend data collected from the industrial device to identify a system trend indicative of an impending system failure or operating inefficiency. Accordingly the analysis service can return information identifying one or more recommended countermeasures for mitigating the impending system failure e.g. replacement of the device modification of one or more device parameters etc. . In another example the industrial enabled mobile device may retrieve a device profile from industrial device that specifies the model number of the device current firmware or software version installed on the industrial device configuration settings for the industrial device or other such information characterizing the identity status and or configuration of the device. The mobile device can send this device profile to the cloud based analysis service which can compare the device profile with up to date product information in a product resource data store to determine whether a newer version of the industrial device or associated software firmware for the device is available. Notification services on the cloud platform can then deliver upgrade opportunity notifications to the mobile device based on this determination. In yet another example the cloud based analysis service may analyze the log data in view of other data sets collected for similar types of industrial systems e.g. using machine learning data mining etc. to identify dependencies or correlations that may otherwise be hidden to the customer. In this regard data collected from one or more industrial devices at the user s plant facility can be correlated with data collected from similar industrial applications in use at other customer sites and the analysis services can generate predictions and configuration recommendations based on learned correlations between asset configurations and system performance. Industrial application component can render analysis results generated either by local or remote analysis of the log data on the display screen of mobile device via user interface component .

In some embodiments if local or remote analysis of the stored log data yields a recommendation that one or more configuration parameters of the industrial device be modified to improve performance industrial application component can offer the user the option to write the recommended configuration changes to industrial device using mobile device . For example based on local or remote analysis of log data the industrial application component may determine that increasing a particular setpoint value configured in the industrial device by 10 may reduce occurrences of a recurring fault condition or otherwise improve performance of the industrial device or related process. Accordingly industrial application component can render this information to the user via the display screen of the mobile device and offer the user the option to write this new setpoint value to the industrial device e.g. by pressing a graphical confirmation button rendered on the mobile device s display screen. Selecting the confirmation button will cause the mobile device to write the new setpoint value to industrial device as described in previous examples.

The ability to read status and configuration data from industrial devices using a mobile personal electronic device may have particular utility when interfacing with industrial safety devices such as safety relays safety curtains and the like. illustrates interactions between an industrial enabled mobile device and an industrial safety device . Industrial safety device may have a range of stored status operational and configuration data available for viewing and analysis. For example an industrials safety device may maintain a data register indicating the light device s current safety integrity level SIL operating mode or other relevant data. Versions of industrial application component specific to safety applications can enable mobile device to read and display this SIL level so that the owner of the mobile device can confirm that the appropriate safety integrity level is being implemented. Mobile device can also determine and indicate whether industrial safety device is operating in standard mode or safety mode based on examination of the operation and configuration data stored in the safety device.

Moreover some safety related embodiments of industrial application component can enforce safety specific read write permissions based on a role and or identity of the user e.g. the owner of mobile device the current safety level and or the safety functionality enabled on industrial safety device . For example one or both of the industrial safety device or mobile device may store a file that defines which users are allowed to access industrial safety device and what actions each user is permitted to perform relative to industrial safety device as a function of the current safety integrity level of the relevant function of the industrial safety device. illustrates an example file format for storing such SIL specific permissives for a safety function. As depicted in each user identity is granted particular sets of permissives depending on the current SIL level . The permissives granted to each user may depend on the defined role of that user. For example while maintenance personnel may be allowed to access and modify certain device parameters via mobile device at high safety integrity levels operators may only be allowed to access and modify these parameters at lower safety integrity levels.

Safety specific embodiments of industrial application component may be configured to enforce these SIL specific permissives. For example returning now to a user may input a request to mobile device to connect to industrial safety device and modify a configuration parameter thereon. Industrial application component may first request biometric confirmation of the user s identity as described in previous examples. Industrial application component can also wirelessly connect to industrial safety device and determine the current SIL level of the safety device. Based on the determined user identity and the current SIL level identity industrial application component can then reference the stored permissive file e.g. a file having a format similar to that depicted in to determine whether the user is permitted to perform the requested action given the current SIL level. Accordingly the industrial application component can then either carry out the requested action e.g. perform the requested parameter modification or deny the action based on this determination.

In scenarios in which the user permissive file is stored on industrial safety device rather than on mobile device the mobile device can send the biometrically confirmed user identity and a signal specifying the requested change to the safety device . The safety device can then determine whether to carry out the requested action based on the stored permissive file. In some embodiments the permissive file may be stored remotely e.g. on cloud platform rather than being stored locally on the mobile device or industrial safety device . In such embodiments mobile device can send the user identity and the request to this remote location and await confirmation that the identified user is permitted to perform the action on safety device prior to sending the request to the safety device.

In another example application one or more embodiments of industrial enabled mobile device can be used to assist in sensor alignment. For example proper alignment of certain through beam photoelectric sensors or light curtains e.g. sensors comprising an emitter and a receiver can be determined based on the light intensity measured at the receiver. Some sensors and light curtains store a real time analog value representing the light intensity measured at the received e.g. the measured intensity of light emitted by the transmitter and seen by the receiver . Accordingly proper alignment of the receiver and the transmitter can be determined based on a determination of whether this light intensity value exceeds a specified value.

One or more embodiments of industrial application component can be configured to confirm proper alignment of such sensors or light curtains by reading this measured light intensity value from the sensor and confirming whether the measured value is within a range specified for the particular sensor indicative of proper alignment. For example the owner of mobile device can initiate an alignment verification routine supported by industrial application component . In response industrial application component can render a suitable graphical interface on the mobile device s display screen and initiate wireless communication with the sensor or light curtain as described in previous examples e.g. via Bluetooth NFC or other wireless communication protocol . In this example industrial application component has access to information specifying the minimum light intensities signifying proper alignment for multiple different types of sensors or light curtains. This information can be stored locally on mobile device e.g. stored on the mobile device s local memory when industrial application component is installed and updated as needed via the wireless interface component when such updates become available . Alternatively this information may be stored remotely e.g. on cloud platform and industrial application component can access this information via wireless interface component .

Since determination regarding whether the sensor s measured light intensity indicates proper alignment depends on the model or type of sensor being examined industrial application component must first identify the sensor model or type. In some embodiments industrial application component can prompt the user to enter the sensor model or type manually via the mobile device s display screen or to select the sensor or light curtain model from a displayed list of supported devices. Alternatively industrial enabled mobile device can determine the sensor information automatically either by reading sensor identification information stored on the sensor or using techniques described above in connection with .

After the sensor or type has been identified the industrial application component can instruct mobile device to read the measured light intensity value from the appropriate register of the sensor s memory over the established wireless connection. In some embodiments industrial application component can use the previously determined sensor type information to determine which area of the sensor s memory the light intensity value is located. Once the light intensity value has been retrieved industrial application component can compare the measured value with the expected minimum light intensity value signifying proper alignment for the identified sensor type or model. If the measured intensity indicates proper sensor alignment industrial application component can render a confirmation message on the graphical interface of the mobile device s display screen. Alternatively if the measured intensity indicates that the sensor or light curtain is not properly aligned industrial application component can render a suitable message indicating that the sensor is out of alignment. In some embodiments industrial application component may also generate and display recommendations for correcting the misalignment based on the light intensity value and if appropriate other information read from the sensor. For example industrial application component may indicate an estimated degree of misalignment based on a comparison of the measured light intensity with the known optimal light intensity for the indicated sensor type.

Some embodiments of industrial enabled mobile device can act as a mobile human machine interface HMI that facilitates regulated access to gated areas of an industrial facility without requiring the user to touch the gate control system. illustrate an example gate control system that facilitates access to a safety secured area in response to commands initiated via an industrial enabled mobile device. In this example scenario an area within an industrial facility e.g. a hazardous area near a controlled industrial machine or process is enclosed within a protective barrier e.g. a safety cage and is accessible only through a controlled safety gate . The machine or process is controlled by an industrial controller e.g. PLC or other automation controller . Controller also communicates with gate control box which controls opening and closing of safety gate . Industrial controller may communicate with gate control box over a plant network or hardwired I O such that gate control box can be made aware of the state of the controlled machine or process based on information received from the industrial controller .

In this example a user can initiate a request to open the gate via industrial enabled mobile device using an embodiment of the industrial application component specific to gate control. In response to a command from the user to launch the gate control application the industrial application component can render a graphical interface for gate control on the display screen of mobile device . Mobile device may also detect the presence of gate control box within range of the mobile device s near field communication interface and initiate wireless communication with the gate control box . The user can then initiate a request to open the safety gate via suitable interaction with the graphical interface.

Before sending the request to the gate control box the graphical interface may prompt the user to enter biometric information in order to confirm the user s identity as described in previous examples. Mobile device can then send the open request to the gate control box together with the biometrically authenticated user identity.

Since access to the protected area may be restricted only to authorized personnel gate control box may store a file identifying all personnel or user roles granted permission to enter the protected area. Upon receiving the open request from the industrial enabled mobile device the gate control box can compare the user identity bundled with the open request with the stored identities of authorized personnel. If the gate control box determines that the user identity or the role associated with the user identity is not an authorized user the gate control box can return a denial message to mobile device indicating that the user has not been granted access to the protected area.

Alternatively as illustrated in if the user identity is determined to correspond to an authorized user gate control box can send an approved open request to the industrial controller . In response the industrial controller can instruct the controlled machine or process to transition to a safe state in order to prepare for human access. For example if the controlled machine or process is currently running the industrial controller may allow the process or machine to complete its current work cycle then return the process or machine to a safe state e.g. place the machine in a Home position and switch to a non automatic mode de energize potentially dangerous equipment etc. . Once the industrial controller confirms that the controlled machine or process is in a safe state the industrial controller can send a safe state confirmation to the gate control box indicating that the protected area is safe to enter. In response to this confirmation gate control box can open the safety gate and send a gate open confirmation to the mobile device over the wireless communication channel. The industrial application component may render a confirmation message on the graphical interface of the mobile device s display screen indicating that the protected area is safe to enter.

Since the industrial enabled mobile device biometrically confirms the user s identity when a request to open the safety gate is initiated gate access requests by plant personnel can be tracked and logged e.g. using a higher level system on the plant facility or by a cloud based tracking system that executes on cloud platform . For example each time a user initiates a request to open the safety gate industrial enabled mobile device can send a record of the request to the higher level system in parallel with the gate opening sequence thereby creating an access log for the protected area that identifies a time of access or a time of a denied access request and an identity of the user who initiated the access request.

According to this embodiment industrial enabled mobile device can be used to initiate contact with a remote technical support entity for assistance with a technical support issue relating to industrial devices and to route relevant system information to the remote technical support entity to facilitate identifying and resolving the issue. To this end the industrial application component executing on mobile device can generate and render a suitable graphical interface on the mobile device s display screen which includes a selectable option for initiating remote support e.g. a graphical button or other input means . In some embodiments the request for remote assistance can be initiated after device data has been collected from industrial devices . Alternatively industrial enabled mobile device may be configured to respond to the technical support request by discovering one or more industrial devices within the mobile device s wireless range initiating communication with the industrial devices and retrieving device data from the devices that may be relevant to identifying and resolving potential performance or maintenance issues with the devices. In yet another example the industrial application component may implement a troubleshooting wizard on the mobile device to facilitate location and retrieval of relevant data from one or more of the industrial devices .

Once the device data has been gathered from the industrial devices and in response to initiation of the remote support request mobile device can send support request data to a cloud based remote support system . Support request data may include a customer identifier associated with the plant facility appended to the request by the industrial application component executing on mobile device a request for remote support and at least a subset of the device data collected by mobile device .

The support request data is received by a device interface component of the cloud based remote support system and provided to a routing component which may perform additional processing on the support request data prior to sending a request to a remote support representative. In some embodiments routing component can perform this additional processing based on previously captured knowledge of the customer s system maintained in a cloud based customer data store not shown or in a customer profile stored on the cloud platform and containing customer specific information about the owner of industrial devices . For example upon receipt of support request data the routing component may extract the customer identifier from the request and retrieve additional information about the customer from the customer data store or customer profile .

Customer profile can contain customer specific information and preferences which can be leveraged by remote support system to determine how support requests should be handled. Example information maintained in customer profile can include a client identifier client contact information specifying other plant personnel who be contacted in response to a technical support request where the identified plant personnel may be dependent upon a production area or hierarchical level for which technical support is required notification preferences specifying how plant personnel should be notified e.g. email mobile phone text message etc. preferred technical support personnel to be contacted in the event of a detected device performance issue service contracts that are active between the customer and the technical support entity and other such information. Remote support system can marry data collected for respective customers with the customer model for identification and event handling purposes. In some embodiments the cloud based remote support system can serve a custom interface to client devices of authorized plant personnel to facilitate entering or editing the customer profile . In other embodiments all or portions of the customer profile can be updated in near real time based on data maintained on a local server on the plant facility. For example if an engineering manager is replaced an administrator at the plant facility may update a locally maintained employee database with the name and contact information for the new manager. The employee database may be communicatively linked to the cloud platform such that the contact information stored in the customer profile is automatically updated to replace the contact information of the outgoing manager with the new employee contact information.

In some embodiments routing component can glean additional customer specific context that may assist in diagnosing the performance problem by referencing system process asset and or device data stored in the cloud based customer data store. Such context may include additional information about the devices and or machines with which the industrial devices interact e.g. identities of such devices as well as their role in the overall industrial system and their functional relationship to industrial devices in particular other upstream or downstream processes whose operation may have an impact on operation of the industrial devices etc.

Some embodiments of routing component can also compare all or portions of support request data relating to performance of industrial devices at the time of the support request with corresponding sets of historical performance data for industrial devices stored in the cloud based customer data store. Based on these comparisons routing component can identify performance metrics that deviated from normal or preferred operation before during and after the detected event so that such deviations can be identified to the remote support representative. Such comparisons can be relative to previously established baseline metrics. In addition since support request data may include collected performance data from other devices or machines that have a functional relationship with industrial devices routing component can also compare performance metrics for these other devices at the time of the support request with previously collected performance data for these devices. Such analysis can provide insight into possible root causes of detected performances issue that are external to the industrial devices themselves. For example based on such analysis routing component may determine that an abnormality of an upstream machine or process is a possible root cause of the performance issue detected at one of the industrial devices .

Also in one or more embodiments routing component can analyze support request data in view of product data maintained in a product knowledgebase to yield additional information that may be relevant to diagnosis of the performance issue. For example routing component may use device identifiers for the industrial devices contained in support request data to retrieve vendor provided information about those industrial devices from the product knowledgebase to determine whether the firmware versions currently installed on the devices are up to date. The product knowledgebase may include vendor provided product information regarding current firmware versions software versions hardware versions etc. Accordingly routing component can retrieve recent product information for the devices identified by the support request data compare a firmware version number indicated by support request data with the most recent firmware version number indicated by the product knowledgebase and make a determination regarding whether the on premises industrial devices are using the most recent firmware version.

Routing component may also reference the product knowledge base to determine whether there are known performance problems e.g. reported technical issues recently discovered product bugs etc. associated with any of the devices identified by the support request data . These performance issues may be a function of the particular software or firmware being run on the devices reported to the remote support system in support request data and accordingly the routing component may determine that installing a different software or firmware version on the device will correct the performance problem.

In another example a device vendor may report a known compatibility issue with their industrial device a discovered performance issue with their device when a particular firmware version is installed or other known problems with their device. Accordingly routing component can access the product knowledgebase to determine whether there are known vendor reported issues with one or more of the industrial devices or related devices identified by support request data . This information can also be reported to the remote support representative to facilitate rapid and accurate diagnosis.

Once preliminary processing of support request data has been completed routing component can package the processed data including support request data and any additional data generated through the analyses described above as aggregated support data . Routing component can then determine a suitable technical support representative to assist the customer in diagnosing the reported issue. In some embodiments based on examination of aggregated support data routing component can determine an area of expertise or competency required to diagnose the issue based on such factors as the particular industrial devices or device types that are involved the industry in which the industrial device is being used e.g. automotive pharmaceutical oil and gas food and drug plastics textiles etc. as identified by customer profile or other such considerations.

Routing component can then reference a set of stored competency profiles to determine a suitable remote support representative or department to assist the customer in addressing the support issue. Competency profiles can be associated with respective technical support individuals or departments and store information specifying areas of expertise for the respective individuals departments. An example competency profile for a given technical support representative can include a list of devices or device types that the representative is competent to diagnose the representative s industries of expertise types of industrial applications in which the representative has experience or other relevant data that can be used by the system to match a suitable representative to the reported issue. In an example scenario if the reported issue relates to a motor drive failure routing component can determine the type of motor drive based on examination of aggregated support data and match the issue to a competency profile associated with a motor drives department of a remote technical support facility. In some embodiments selection of an appropriate support representative can also be based on customer preferences maintained in customer profile which may specify one or more support representatives preferred by the customer.

Routing component can then route the aggregated support data to the technical support representative or department whose profile matches the reported issue. This can involve sending a notification together with all or portions of aggregated support data to one or more client devices associated with the selected support representative or department. The rich set of data contained in aggregated support data can quickly convey the nature of the problem to the technical support representative via the client device without requiring the customer to have extensive knowledge of their own system. Moreover the additional customer specific information maintained in the cloud based customer data store can be accessed by the customer support representative via the cloud platform so that additional knowledge of the customer s system can be obtained if necessary.

Aggregated support data can comprise a variety of information to assist the remote support representative with diagnosis. For example aggregated support data can include a summary of the detected problem and an identification of the affected industrial device s . Since a reported device failure or performance degradation can be a function of the behavior of other related devices or assets aggregated support data can also include system configuration information describing the system of which the affected device is a component. This can include identification of related devices or machines the relationship of these other devices or machines to the affected device information that is shared between the devices how the various devices are networked including identities and locations of network architecture devices used to network the system and other such system configuration information. Relevant contextual information e.g. a location of the affected device within a the overall enterprise or plant hierarchy timestamp data quality indicators machine or process states identification and locations of plant personnel at the time of the detected event etc. can also be provided via aggregated support data .

Aggregated support data can also identify system deviations from baseline performance metrics and configurations. In this regard routing component can compare the performance and device configuration data provided by mobile device with corresponding baseline performance metrics and device configuration data maintained in the cloud based customer data store in order to identify aspects of the customer s system e.g. performance indicators configuration parameters software versions etc. that have deviated from their baseline values. These deviant aspects can be identified to the customer support representative as being potentially relevant to diagnosis of the reported issue.

In some embodiments aggregated support data can provide the remote service representative with a virtual representation of the customer s system based on the customer data maintained on the cloud platform. This virtual representation can leverage any suitable customer data e.g. device process asset and or system data to construct a virtual representation of the customer s production area plant or other subset of the industrial enterprise. In an example scenario the virtual representation can comprise a three dimensional representation that can be navigated by the customer service representative where the representation includes graphical representations of the customer s devices and assets. These graphical device representations can be located and oriented with respect to one another to simulate their respective locations in the plant thereby allowing the customer support representative to explore the customer s system in a manner that simulates their presence on the plant floor. The remote support system can overlay graphical indicators on particular areas of the customer s industrial system e.g. devices production areas etc. that may be experiencing a performance issue or that may be a cause of an issue detected at another part of the plant. These indicators can be based for example on the baseline deviations described above.

Depending on the active service contract between the customer and the technical support entity aggregated support data may include automatically generated work order information for maintenance or purchase order information for equipment depending on the nature of the detected issue. For example if the remote support system diagnoses the detected performance issue as one that requires an on site support visit or a replacement device routing component can automatically generate the necessary work order or purchase order for delivery to the technical support entity. In the event that an on site visit is deemed necessary the system may also automatically schedule the on site visit. In this regard the remote support system can for example access an on site scheduling system maintained by the customer support entity either locally at the support facility or on the cloud platform to determine available times and technicians.

In addition to providing relevant device and customer data the remote support system may also provide the remote support representative with contact information for the owner of mobile device e.g. a phone number of the mobile device if the mobile device is a phone an email address etc. allowing the representative to contact the employee directly e.g. via mobile device or other personal client device belonging to the plant employee. In addition or alternatively the remote support system can automatically establish a communication channel between the support representative s personal device e.g. desktop computer laptop tablet mobile device wearable computer etc. and the mobile device . This may involve initiating a phone call to the mobile device or establishing a video conference between the employee and the support representative via the cloud platform.

Some embodiments of the cloud based remote support system can also include tools that allow the plant employee to send supplemental information about a reported issue to the technical support representative. Since the remote support system creates a unique issue identifier for each reported issue the owner of industrial enabled mobile device can use the mobile device to generate supplemental information about the problem and upload this additional information to the cloud platform in association with the issue identifier. For example the customer may decide that the photographs or video of an affected machine or device may assist the support representative in diagnosing the cause of a reported performance issue. In this scenario the customer can take a photograph or video footage of the relevant machine or device using mobile device . Then through interaction with a graphical interface generated by the industrial application component executing on mobile device the user can establish a login session with the cloud based support system enter or select the open issue identifier and upload the photograph or video to the remote support system in association with the open issue identifier. In response to receiving the photograph or video the routing component can deliver the photograph or video tagged with the issue identifier to the personal client device associate with the relevant support technician. The remote support system may also store the received photograph or video in a record for the open support issue together with previously provided information.

In one or more embodiments industrial enabled mobile device executing industrial application component can be used to identify and locate a failed sensor either by direct wireless communication with the failed sensor or by inferring the identity of the failed sensor through coordination with other devices.

In a first example a sensor may be designed to emit a wireless beacon e.g. an infrared or radio frequency beacon when the sensor is in a failed state. Accordingly embodiments of industrial application component designed to detect sensor failures can leverage the mobile device s wireless interface to detect this beacon and generate a notification on the mobile device s display screen via user interface component in response to detecting this beacon. Industrial application component can also determine a location of the source of beacon relative to the mobile device and render directional information on the mobile device s display screen to guide the user to the location of the failed sensor. Thus a plant employee can use their personal mobile device to detect and locate a failed sensor in order to effect repair or replacement.

In another example rather than detecting the failed sensor through direct wireless communication with the sensor industrial enabled mobile device can be configured to identify and locate the failed sensor through interaction with other devices comprising the industrial control system. For example in response to a command from the owner of mobile device industrial application component can cause the mobile device to establish wireless communication with industrial controller as described in previous examples. Based on information regarding the particular type or model of the industrial controller either manually provided by the user or determined during a handshaking sequence between the mobile device and industrial controller the industrial application component can determine the data registers within the industrial controller s data table that correspond to the various input devices that interface with the industrial controller . The industrial controller s data table may include information regarding the types of input devices corresponding to the respective digital and or analog input points of the controller s input modules user defined names or descriptions for each input e.g. Part present at Station 1 Mixer 1 Fill Level Part Placement Station Light Curtain etc. I O address information for each input and or diagnostic information for each input device. Industrial application component can read and interpret this data table information from industrial controller and render status information for the respective input devices based on this retrieved data. Industrial application component can identify failed sensors based on the retrieved information and flag these sensors on the mobile device s display screen. Since the names or descriptions associated with each sensor are read from the industrial controller and rendered on the display sensors flagged as being failed can be quickly identified.

In addition to communication with an industrial controller industrial enabled mobile device can determine or infer the identity and or location of a failed sensor based on communication with other types of devices including but not limited to remote I O module a safety relay wired to one or more sensors etc. In another example mobile device may determine that a transmitting photoelectric sensor has failed by wirelessly reading a failure indication from the mating receiver photoelectric sensor.

At an identifier of the industrial device is determined based on analysis of the photographic data. This can comprise for example translating the QR code or performing optical character recognition on the catalog number contained in the photographic data. At the identifier determined at step is submitted to a data store that contains information about the industrial device. The data store may comprise for example a product database or knowledgebase containing information about various industrial devices categorized by catalog number. In some embodiments the data store may reside locally on the mobile personal device. Alternatively the data store may reside remotely relative to the mobile personal device e.g. on a cloud platform accessible by the mobile personal device via an Internet connection. In such embodiments the mobile personal device can submit the translated device identifier to the remote data store via the mobile device s wireless interface.

At information about the industrial device is retrieved from the data store. This information may include for example a name and function of the industrial device technical documentation for the industrial device recommended configuration settings for the industrial device contact information for technical support entities who may be able to provide expert assistance with installation or maintenance of the industrial device or other such information. At the information retrieved at step is rendered on a display of the mobile personal device.

At a recorded blink sequence is identified based on analysis of the video data. For example the mobile device may be configured to identify a portion of the video data corresponding to a flashing LED and to perform an analysis on this portion of the video to identify the blink sequence being rendered by the LED. At the identified blink sequence is cross referenced with a set of blink sequences associated with the identified industrial device to determine the error code represented by the blink sequence. This can be accomplished for example by submitting a distinctive blink sequence identifier corresponding to the translated blink sequence to a product knowledgebase containing information about known error codes for various industrial devices and the respective blink sequences used to indicate each error code. At information about the error code is rendered on the display screen of the mobile personal device. The information may comprise a description of the error and recommended actions for clearing the error or for mitigating possible future occurrences of the error.

At a determination is made regarding whether a confirmation that the industrial automation system is in a safe state has been received from the industrial controller. If no such confirmation has been received the methodology continues to wait until the safe state confirmation has been received from the industrial controller. When the confirmation has been received the methodology moves to step where the safety gate control device initiates opening of the safety gate. At the safety gate control device sends a confirmation to the mobile personal device that the gate has been opened and the industrial automation system is in a safe state.

At the mobile personal device accesses a data store that cross references functionally equivalent industrial devices across multiple vendors. This data store can be stored locally on the mobile device or remotely on web based or cloud based storage. At a second industrial device determined to be equivalent to the first industrial device is identified based on the identity of the first device determined at step and information contained in the data store. The second industrial device may be associated with a second vendor that is different than the first vendor. At information about the second industrial device is rendered on the display screen of the mobile personal device. This information can include for example an identity e.g. vendor and or model or catalog number of the second industrial device a description of the second industrial device contact information for local vendors who may have the second industrial device available for sale or other such information.

Embodiments systems and components described herein as well as industrial control systems and industrial automation environments in which various aspects set forth in the subject specification can be carried out can include computer or network components such as servers clients programmable logic controllers PLCs automation controllers communications modules mobile computers wireless components control components and so forth which are capable of interacting across a network. Computers and servers include one or more processors electronic integrated circuits that perform logic operations employing electric signals configured to execute instructions stored in media such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a hard drives as well as removable memory devices which can include memory sticks memory cards flash drives external hard drives and so on.

Similarly the term PLC or automation controller as used herein can include functionality that can be shared across multiple components systems and or networks. As an example one or more PLCs or automation controllers can communicate and cooperate with various network devices across the network. This can include substantially any type of control communications module computer Input Output I O device sensor actuator and human machine interface HMI that communicate via the network which includes control automation and or public networks. The PLC or automation controller can also communicate to and control various other devices such as I O modules including analog digital programmed intelligent I O modules other programmable controllers communications modules sensors actuators output devices and the like.

The network can include public networks such as the internet intranets and automation networks such as control and information protocol CIP networks including DeviceNet ControlNet and EtherNet IP. Other networks include Ethernet DH DH Remote I O Fieldbus Modbus Profibus CAN wireless networks serial protocols and so forth. In addition the network devices can include various possibilities hardware and or software components . These include components such as switches with virtual local area network VLAN capability LANs WANs proxies gateways routers firewalls virtual private network VPN devices servers clients computers configuration tools monitoring tools and or other devices.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter as well as the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter may be implemented.

With reference to an example environment for implementing various aspects of the aforementioned subject matter includes a computer . The computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various available processors. Multi core microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including the memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to 8 bit bus Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

The system memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . The basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up is stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory includes random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM .

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. illustrates for example a disk storage . Disk storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive floppy disk drive tape drive Jaz drive Zip drive LS 100 drive flash memory card or memory stick. In addition disk storage can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media including but not limited to an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device CD ROM CD recordable drive CD R Drive CD rewritable drive CD RW Drive or a digital versatile disk ROM drive DVD ROM . To facilitate connection of the disk storage to the system bus a removable or non removable interface is typically used such as interface .

It is to be appreciated that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and the basic computer resources described in suitable operating environment . Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of the computer . System applications take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be appreciated that one or more embodiments of the subject disclosure can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user enters commands or information into the computer through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to the processing unit through the system bus via interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s . Thus for example a USB port may be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapters are provided to illustrate that there are some output devices like monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which require special adapters. The output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide a means of connection between the output device and the system bus . It should be noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer . For purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected via communication connection . Network interface encompasses communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN . LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet IEEE 802.3 Token Ring IEEE 802.5 and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refers to the hardware software employed to connect the network interface to the system bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software necessary for connection to the network interface includes for exemplary purposes only internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards.

What has been described above includes examples of the subject innovation. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the disclosed subject matter but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the subject innovation are possible. Accordingly the disclosed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

In particular and in regard to the various functions performed by the above described components devices circuits systems and the like the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. a functional equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspects of the disclosed subject matter. In this regard it will also be recognized that the disclosed subject matter includes a system as well as a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for performing the acts and or events of the various methods of the disclosed subject matter.

In addition while a particular feature of the disclosed subject matter may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes and including and variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

In this application the word exemplary is used to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion.

Various aspects or features described herein may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

